1 JOHN G. McCLENDON (State Bar No. 145077)
2 LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN
A Professional Corporation

3 9841 Irvine Center Drive
Suite 230 Irvine, California 92618 4 Telephone: (949) 585-6300

5 Facsimile: (949) 585-6305

6 Attorneys for Petitioner COALITION TO SAVE REDLANDS ORANGE GROVES

7

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 FOR THE COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO - SAN BERNARDINO DISTRICT

10
COALITION TO SAVE REDLANDS 11 ORANGE GROVES, an unincorporated Case No.

12 association,
NNVI Petitioner, VERIFIED PETITION FOR
WRIT OF MANDATE

8 LEIBOLD McCLENDON , A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13

14 V. [Code Civ. Proc. $§ 1085 / 1094.5;

CITY OF REDLANDS, and DOES 1-10, Public Resources Code § 21168]

15 inclusive,

16 Respondents, NOTE TO COURT CLERK: THIS

17
MLC HOLDINGS, INC. WHICH WILL DO _) PETITION INCLUDES A "CEOA" CAUSE OF ACTION TO BE

18 [ BUSINESS IN CALIFORNIA AS MLC ASSIGNED TO A SUPERIOR
LAND HOLDINGS, INC., an Arizona 19 Corporation; MERITAGE HOMES COURT JUDGE DESIGNATED IN ACCORDANCE WITH PUBLIC
CORPORATION, a Maryland corporation, 20 DOES 11 through 25, inclusive, RESOURCES CODE § 21167.1(6)

21 Real Parties in Interest.

22

23

24

25

26 INTRODUCTION

27 Petitioner COALITION TO SAVE REDLANDS ORANGE GROVES (*Petitioner") alleges as
28 follows:

-1-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1. Petitioner challenges certain land use decisions made by respondent CITY OF
2 REDLANDS ("City" or "Respondent"). Specifically, Petitioner challenges Respondent's approval

3 of the application submitted by real party in interest MLC HOLDINGS, INC. WHICH WILL DO

4 BUSINESS IN CALIFORNIA AS MILC LAND HOLDINGS, INC., a wholly-owned subsidiary of holding
5 company MERITAGE HOMES CORPORATION (collectively, "RPI") for the "Bergamot Specific
6 Plan" in order to construct 317 single-family tract homes plus amenities (the "Project") on 58.64
7| acres of Prime Farmland and Farmland of Statewide Importance (the "Property") in the northern

8 part of the City and the mitigated negative declaration ("MND") prepared for the Project.
2. Petitioner contends that Respondent's preparation and approval of a MND for the
10 Project, and its approval by the City's elected city council (and an unelected subordinate body
11 thereto), violate specific provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (Pub. Resources
8 NNVINI *Y NOUNIIOOW CIOHIHT 12 Code §§ 21000, et seq.: "CEQA") and the Guidelines for Implementation of CEQA (Title 14,
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13 Cal. Code Regs., §§ 15000, et seq.: the "Guidelines"), a statutory and regulatory framework
14 often referred to as the "Holy Grail" of California's environmental laws.
15 3. Petitioner is challenging the Project because (among other things) it is a project
16 that may result in significant impacts on the environment that have not been adequately assessed
17 or mitigated in accordance with CEQA and the Guidelines. Respondent ignored fair arguments
18 supported by expert opinion and substantial evidence that the development and operation of the
19 Project upon the Property would cause significant unmitigated impacts on the environment.
20 4. In refusing to prepare and certify a legally adequate environmental impact report

21 that fully disclosed and analyzed all of the potential impacts that will result from the Project,
22 refusing to consider feasible and environmentally superior alternatives to the Project, and failing

23 to make all mitigation measures fully enforceable, Respondent has disregarded or treated as a
24 mere formality the specific and substantive requirements of CEQA and the Guidelines.

25 5. Petitioner also contends Respondent's approval of the Project violates California's
26 Planning and Zoning Law (Gov. Code §§ 65000, et seq.: the "PZL") as well as the City's own

27 laws because (among other things) the Project is inconsistent with the City's General Plan and
28 a voter-enacted initiative known as "Measure U."

-2-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 6. Petitioner requests that this Court vacate and set aside Respondent's approval of
2 the Project and the MND by issuing a writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure sections

3 1085 and/or 1094.5, directing Respondent to vacate and set aside its approval of the Project and

4 the MND. These claims are based on the following allegations:

5 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

6 7. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to sections 1085, 1094.5, and

7 187 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and section 21168 of the Public Resources Code.

8 8. Venue for this action properly lies in the San Bernardino County Superior Court

9 because Respondent, the Property and the Project are located in San Bernardino County.

10 PARTIES AND BENEFICIAL INTEREST

11 9. Petitioner is an unincorporated umbrella organization composed of and supported
NNVA  NOUNHIOI IIOHIIT 12 by grassroots community groups and others devoted to the preservation of the environment.
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13 These groups and individuals - among them Redlanders for Responsible Growth Management,
14 Save the Redlands Orange Groves, and Tri-County Conservation League-formed Petitioner for
15 the purpose of representing the interests of the public in assuring compliance with the State's
16 environmental and land use laws. Petitioner's members reside in and around the City and/or own
17 real property in and around it. On behalf of Petitioner's members, their respective constituents,
18 and other City residents, Petitioner challenges Respondent's approval of the MND and Project.
19 10. Petitioner has associational standing to bring this action and is a party beneficially
20 interested in the issuance of the requested writ of mandate (i) because in accordance with Public
21 Resources Code section 21177(c), Petitioner is an organization formed after the approval of the
22 Project to maintain an action against Respondent under CEQA; (ii) because certain members of
23 Petitioner-and individuals who are members of the groups comprising Petitioner-complied with
24 subdivisions (a) and (b) of Public Resources Code section 21177 and exhausted their
25 administrative remedies by timely commenting on and objecting to the contents and adequacy
26 of the Project and MND both orally and in writing; and (iii) because the environmental impacts
27 of Respondent's decision will extend to areas in which citizens represented by Petitioner own
28 property and/or live. Unless this Court grants the requested writ of mandate, the impacts

-3-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 resulting from Respondent's decision to approve the Project will extend to areas in which
2 numerous citizens represented by Petitioner live and will directly and adversely affect their
3 health and living environment. Consequently, Petitioner is directly and beneficially interested

4 in the issuance of the requested writ of mandate.
11. Respondent City of Redlands is a municipal corporation, organized and existing
6 under the laws of the State of California. The City was the "lead agency" under CEQA for the 5

7 Project and is responsible for carrying out its statutorily mandated duties, including preparation

8 of environmental documentation conforming to the requirements of CEQA and the Guidelines
prior to approving the MND and implementing and complying with all provisions of CEQA, the
10 Guidelines, the PZL, and other laws, ordinances and regulations applicable to the City. 9

11 12. Petitioner is informed and believes and on that basis alleges that real party in
12 interest MLC HOLDINGS, INC. WHICH WILL DO BUSINESS IN CALIFORNIA AS MLC LAND
NOLLVHOHOO IVNOISSHIONd V HOLDINGS, INC., is an Arizona corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of real party in
14 interest MERITAGE HOMES CORPORATION, a Maryland corporation and holding company. 13

15 13. City staff reports, agendas, and other materials presented to the City's planning
16 commission and City Council identified MLC HOLDINGS, INC. WHICH WILL DO BUSINESS IN • -.-.. ....... & NNVI Y NOONIIOOW IIOHIAT 17 CALIFORNIA AS MLC LAND HOLDINGS, INC. as the applicant seeking the discretionary approvals
needed to develop the Project. Therefore, By naming MLC HOLDINGS, INC. WHICH WILL DO
19 BUSINESS IN CALIFORNIA AS MLCLAND HOLDINGS, INC., and MERITAGE HOMES CORPORATION 18

20 as the real parties in interest in this action, Petitioner has fully complied with subdivision (a) of

21 Public Resources Code section 21167.6.5.

22 14. Petitioner is ignorant of the true names and capacities of the respondents named
23 herein as DOES 1 through 10, and the real parties in interest named herein as DOES 11 through
24 25, inclusive, and therefore sues those respondents and real parties in interest by such fictitious
names. Petitioner will amend this petition to allege the true names and capacities of those Doe
26 parties when ascertained. Petitioner is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, that each 25

27 of the parties designated herein as a Doe is responsible in some manner for the events and
28 actions referred to herein.

-4-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

15. Petitioner is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, that at all relevant
2 times the City, RPI, and the Doe respondents and real parties in interest were and are the agents
3

4

5 of each other, authorized to do the acts herein alleged, each of which was ratified by the others.
16.

6 The true names and capacities, whether individual, corporate, or otherwise of Does
through 25 are unknown to Petitioner who therefore sues Does 1 through 25 by such fictitious

7 respondents when the same becomes known to it. Reference to "City" or "Respondent" herein
8 names. Petitioner will amend this petition to allege the true names and capacities of the Doe

9 shall mean the named respondents and Does 1 through 25.
17.

10

11 Petitioner is informed and believes and on that basis alleges that Respondent and
each of the Does proximately caused the acts, omissions to act, and/or injuries herein alleged.
18.

A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN Respondent is, and at all times relevant herein has been, charged by law with the
12 performance of all duties arising under CEQA and the Guidelines, including (but not limited to)
13

14 the Project, the PZL, and other laws, ordinances and regulations applicable to the City.
15 the preparation and certification of a legally adequate environmental impact report ("EIR") for

19.

16 Petitioner has exhausted all legally available administrative remedies against

18 Respondent's decision to approve the Project's MND as being in compliance with CEQA and
17 the Guidelines. The decision of Respondent to approve the MND is a final determination. If the

19

20 Court does not grant the relief prayed for herein, Petitioner will suffer irreparable injury for

21 which it has no adequate remedy at law, there will be a waste, and the failure to enjoin further
conduct may tend to render the judgment in this action ineffectual.
20. Petitioner has complied with the requirements of Public Resources Code section
22 21167.5 by sending, via United States Mail, written notice of this action to Respondent. A copy
23 of the written notice provided to Respondent is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated
24| herein by this reference.

25 21. Petitioner will comply with the requirements of Public Resources Code section
26 21167.7 and Code of Civil Procedure section 388 by furnishing a copy of this Verified Petition
27 for Writ of Mandate to the Attorney General of California in accordance with Public Resources
28 Code section 21167.7.

-5-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 ALLEGATIONS COMMON TO ALL CAUSES OF ACTION

2 22. Citrus farming was the City's original economic base and remains visible today
3 in groves and plantings throughout the City, packing houses, street and development names, and

4 public art and streetscaping elements. Despite the City's celebration of its citrus heritage, the
5 amount of land in citrus production has decreased substantially over the years.

23. On November 4, 1997, the City's voters passed "Measure U" to amend the City's
7 General Plan. The voters took this extraordinary step SO that the General Plan would (among
other things) ensure the preservation of agricultural and citrus production uses in the City. To
achieve this fundamental goal and impose a mandate on City officials, Measure U begins with
10 the following statement of purpose:

11 A. The purpose and intent of this initiative measure is to establish
12 comprehensive and inviolable principles of managed development for the City of NNVT: NOIIVHOJHOO TVNOISSHHONI Y 13 Redlands that will preserve, enhance and maintain the special quality of life
8 14 valued by this community. The principles of managed development established by NOINIIOOW CIOHIHT 15 this initiative measure assure that future development within the City of Redlands

16 occurs in a way that promotes the social and economic well-being of the entire
17 community.

18 B. The unique character of the City of Redlands as a quiet university town
19 surrounded by agricultural and citrus producing lands is cherished by its residents.

20 Residents of Redlands perceive the City as a community of homes where grown
return to raise their families. 21 children are eager to

22 24. In addition, Measure U's statement of purpose underscores the importance of
23 agriculture to the community as follows:
24 I. Uncontrolled high density urban development will permanently alter the character

25 of the City of Redlands and threaten the public health, safety and welfare by causing
26 increased traffic congestion, associated air pollution, noise, and higher crime rates.

27 Costly expansion of public facilities and services, including police and fire services, will
28 be required to meet the needs of a rapidly urbanizing community. This will create

-6-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1

2 inevitable conflicts between urban and agricultural uses within the City of Redlands and

3 will permanently alter the quality of life experienced by its residents.
J.

4 This initiative measure is consonant with and furthers the purpose and intent of

5 Proposition R, approved by the voters in 1978, and Measure N, approved by the voters

6 in 1987 with regard to the preservation of agricultural land. In addition, it furthers the

7 explicit policy of the State of California set forth in California Government Code Section

8 51220 which reads in relevant part as follows:

9 [T]he discouragement of premature and unnecessary conversion of

10 agricultural land to urban uses is a matter of public interest and will be of

11 benefit to urban dwellers themselves in that it will discourage

12
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN discontiguous urban development patterns which unnecessarily increase the

13 costs of community services to community residents.

14 [I]n a rapidly urbanizing society agricultural lands have a definite

15 public value as open space, and the preservation in agricultural production

16 of such lands, the use of which may be limited under the provisions of this

17 chapter, constitutes an important physical, social, esthetic and economic

18 25. asset to existing or pending urban or metropolitan developments."

19 Section 1A of Measure U establishes certain specific development principles that

21 the City is required to implement in making development decisions such as this. With regard
20| to principles affecting land in agricultural use, Measure U provides as follows:

22 1A.40 PRINCIPLE FOUR - Agricultural uses of land are important to the culture,

23 economy and stability of the City of Redlands and shall be preserved to the greatest extent

24 possible consistent with the will of the people as expressed in Proposition R and

25 Measure N, and consistent with the policies of the State of California set forth in

26 Government Code Section 51220.

26. Measure U also added specific language to the City's land use regulations,
27| including the following:

28 2. The non-italicized portion of Section 4.40s is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
-7-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

"No land undeveloped as of March 1, 1997 and designated in whole or in

2 part as "Urban Reserve" or "Urban Reserve (Agricultural)" in the Redlands

3 general plan in effect as of June 1, 1987, and/or any land parcel that was

4 in active agricultural production on November 3, 1986 regardless of

5 zoning, shall be re-designated or rezoned to permit residential density

6 greater than the Estate Residential (R-E) classification, as the same existed
7 on June 1, 1987, in the Redlands City Zoning Ordinance, unless the

8 following mandatory findings are made and the re-designation or rezoning
is approved by four-fifths (4/5) vote of the total authorized membership of
10 the City Council.
11 1. There are substantial and overriding economic or social benefits to

12 the City and its residents and taxpayers from the proposed density increase. NNVI NOLIVHOdHOO TVNOISSHHONI F 13 2. The proposed density increase will not cause adverse environmental
d 14 impacts, either individually or cumulatively, directly or indirectly. NOUNHIOOW CIOHIHT 15 3. The proposed density increase will not convert viable agricultural

16 land to non-agricultural uses.
The proposed density increase will not have a growth-inducing 17 4.

18 effect on other property.

19 5. The resulting use will be compatible with uses on adjacent land.

20 6. The proposed density increase will not require substantial expansion

21 of public infrastructure, facilities or services."
22 27. In December 2017, the City Council adopted the 2035 General Plan, redesignating

23 about 200 City acres identified on the California Resources Agency's Farmland Mapping and
24 Monitoring Program as being Prime Farmland, Farmland of Statewide Importance, or Unique
25 Farmland (important farmland) currently under cultivation, including the Property.
26 28. The Environmental Impact Report prepared for the 2035 General Plan ("GP EIR")

27 stated that "[i]f a project a proposes urban uses on these [farmland] sites, it would result in
28 conversion of agricultural lands, which would be considered significant."

-8-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 29.

2 To address this significant impact the GP EIR assured City residents that:

3 "Individual projects under the proposed General Plan would be required to

4 undergo subsequent environmental review pursuant to CEQA, and as part of this

5 review effort, projects requiring discretionary approval would be required to

6 address impacts on agricultural lands. [] However, despite proposed policies and

7 existing State and local regulations that would make the loss of Prime, Important,

or

8 Unique farmland less severe, the conversion of this farmland would be

9 considered a significant and unavoidable impact."

10

11 Thus, with regard to project like the Project that involves the conversion of Prime Farmland
to non-agricultural use, the GP EIR assured City residents (i) that such projects would undergo

LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13 a separate project-specific CEQA review, and (ii) that such review would acknowledge that a
12 conversion of Prime Farmland would be regarded as a significant and unavoidable impact.
30. In March 2020, RPI submitted its application for land use entitlements to develop
14 the Project. In May 2021, the City released the MND for the Project for 30 day public review.
15 In analyzing the Project's potentially significant impacts on agricultural resources, the MND
16 claimed the Project would have "less than significant impacts" on the loss of farmland because
17 the City's GP EIR previously acknowledged that this loss of farmland was a significant and a
18 unmitigable environmental impact and therefore had adopted a statement of overriding
19 considerations for it as a prerequisite for the City approving the 2035 General Plan.
20 31.

21

22 On June 7, 2021, the California Department of Conservation, Division of Land

23 Resource Protection, wrote the City to urge it to note that the Project's loss of Prime Farmland

24 was a significant impact under CEQA and that there were feasible mitigation measures that

25 could at least partially mitigate those impacts. The City rebuffed these comments by stating that:
"conversion of Prime Farmland at the project site was previously analyzed in the

26

27 2035 General Plan EIR and findings and a Statement of Overriding Considerations
were adopted identifying the significant and unavoidable impacts on farmland

28 conversion. Because there is no new information or circumstances that would
result in a more severe significant impact than previously considered, no further

-9-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

analysis or mitigation is warranted, and the impact of the proposed project remains

2 less than significant."

3 32. On August 10, 2021, the City's planning commission reviewed the Project and

4 voted 6 to 0 to recommend that the City Council approve it.

5 33. The City Council initially agendized its hearing on the Project for September 21,
6 2021, but continued it after receiving letters objecting to the Project on the grounds that it

7 violated Measure U and CEQA.

8 34. On October 5, 2021, the City Council voted 5 to 0 to approve the Project.
9 35. On October 6, 2021, the City posted a Notice of Determination for the Project.
FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION 10

(Against Respondent) 11
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
NOLLVIOMOO IVNOISSHIOHI V 8 NNVW 2 NOINIIOOW GIOgIHT 12

13 36. Petitioner realleges paragraphs 1 through 35 into this paragraph.

14 A. The Project Violates CEQA and the Guidelines. In particular:
15 37. CEQA applies to all "governmental agencies at all levels" and requires public
16 agencies to prepare an EIR whenever the approval of a project may cause significant adverse
17 effects or impacts on the environment. Respondent's decision to approve the Project was a
18 project approval causing significant adverse environmental impacts.
19 38. CEQA requires lead agencies to review the environmental impacts of all projects.
20 Under Public Resources Code Section 21065, a project is any discretionary public "activity
21 which may cause either a direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably foresecable
22 indirect physical change in the environment." Respondent's decision to approve the Project was
23 a discretionary decision by Respondent that will result in "reasonably foreseeable" adverse
24 environmental impacts.

25 39. A "significant effect on the environment" means a substantial, or potentially
26 substantial, adverse change in any of the physical conditions within the area affected by the
27 project including land, air, water, minerals, flora, fauna, ambient noise, and objects of historic
28 or aesthetic significance. The Project's potential impact to both its future occupants and the
-10-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

F community required the preparation of an environmental impact report ("EIR"). By way of

2 example and not limitation, Respondent approved the Project despite being presented with fair

3 arguments supported by expert opinion (such as the California Department of Conservation,

4 Division of Land Resource Protection and others) and substantial evidence that the Project

5 would lead to environmental impacts that would not be mitigated to a level of insignificance, and

6 subdivision (g) of Guidelines section 15064, therefore, required the preparation of an EIR.

7 40. In order for an EIR to be legally adequate, it must comport with certain
8 requirements set forth in CEQA and the Guidelines. For example, CEQA and the Guidelines

9 require that an EIR include a description of the Project and a discussion of alternatives to the
10 Project, including (but not limited to) the "no project" alternative and alternative methods of
11 accomplishing some, but perhaps not all, of the proposed Project's objectives. However,
LEIBOLD McCLENDON C MANN 12 Respondent did not proceed in the manner required by law in that it failed to cause an EIR to be
13 prepared that adequately discussed a reasonable range of alternatives to the proposed Project,
d8 NOLIVHONOO IVNOISSIIONJ V 14 thereby eliminating a meaningful basis for comparing the adverse environmental impacts of the
15 proposed Project to environmentally superior alternatives.

16 41. Respondent further did not proceed in the manner required by law in that it caused
17 a MND to be produced that was biased in favor of the proposed Project's approval and,
18 therefore, failed to constitute the full disclosure document intended to objectively inform
19| decision-makers and the public of the Project's true impacts, mitigation measures, and
20 alternatives. By way of example and not limitation, the MND failed to honestly address basic
21 deficiencies in the Initial Study's Agriculture and Forestry Impacts section by instead citing to
22 the GP EIR's analysis of agricultural impacts despite that document expressly stating that the
23 City would undertake a separate full CEQA review of any future project that would cause the
24 loss of Prime Farmland, Farmland of Statewide Importance, or Unique Farmland.
25 42. CEQA mandates that a lead agency disclose all that it reasonably can regarding
26 a Project's potential impacts on the environment. In violation of this, the City failed to conduct
27 a standard Land Evaluation and Site Assessment ("LESA") regarding the Project's conversion
28 of nearly sixty acres of Prime Farmland to residential tract home development. However, a

-11-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

member of Petitioner had a LESA prepared for the Project in accordance with the California
2 Department of Conservation Office of Conservation's Instruction Manual, and that LESA
3 concluded that the Project would have an impact on agriculture resources that is "considered

4 significant."

43. There is a fair argument that the Project will have significant environmental
6 impacts. By way of example and not limitation, the administrative record for the Project is 5

7| replete with evidence supporting a fair argument that the Project will result in significant impacts

8 in several of the 21 impact areas identified in Appendix G of the Guidelines. The Project will
also result in cumulative impacts unaccounted for in the MND.

10 44. The Project's significant direct, indirect, or cumulative adverse impacts on the

NNVTA : 12 Guidelines prohibit a lead agency from "piecemealing" a project; i.e., breaking up a larger 11 environment give rise to Respondent's legal obligation to prepare an EIR. CEQA and the

& NOLLVHOdHOO IVNOISSHHONJ 14 impacts. At the same time the City was processing the Project, it was also considering at least 13 project into pieces and individually analyzing each piece's potential to result in environmental

NOINHIOOW CIOHIHT 15 one other proposed private development project that would convert Prime Farmland acreage to
16 a residential tract development. However, instead of reviewing the combined cumulative impact
17 of multiple project that would cause the loss of Prime Farmland, the City is analyzing each
18 project discretely in order to avoid such a cumulative impact analysis.
is a violation of 45. Respondent's failure to prepare an environmental impact report
20 CEQA and the Guidelines. As a result of Respondent's violation of CEQA and the Guidelines, 19

Petitioner has been harmed insofar as Petitioner, its members, other members of the public, and
22 the responsible decision-makers were not fully informed about the potentially adverse 21

23 environmental impacts of the Project; and insofar as Petitioner, its members, and other members
24 of the public did not have an opportunity to participate meaningfully in the analysis of such
25 impacts prior to approval of the Project.
46. Respondent did not proceed in the manner required by law in that it failed to adopt
27 findings that adequately discussed all significant Project impacts, failed to make adequate 26

28 specific findings with regard to the feasibility of each mitigation measure and each alternative

-12-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

2 identified in the MND, and failed to adopt all feasible mitigation measures.
47.

3 CEQA and the Guidelines require that Respondent adopt feasible mitigation

4 measures to avoid significant environmental impacts. Respondent did not proceed in the manner
required by law in that the MND failed to adequately examine and discuss potential mitigation

6 measures that would substantially lessen the Project's reasonably foreseeable adverse impacts,

7 including (without limitation) impacts on agriculture resources.

B.

8 The Project Violates the PZL. In particular:
48.

9 49. The City's General Plan is its basic land use planning document.
State law requires a city's general plan to include a comprehensive long-term plan
10 for the physical development of that city.

11 50.

LEIBOLD McCLENDON : MANN 12 Government Code section 65302 mandates that every general plan contain and

13
& A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION address seven mandatory elements: land use, circulation, housing, conservation, open space,
noise, and safety.
14 51.

15 By its enactment of Government Code section 65300.5, the Legislature intends that
every general plan and elements and parts thereof comprise an integrated, internally consistent
16 and compatible statement of policies.

17 52.

18 The PZL prohibits the approval of any project that is not consistent with the

19 General Plan and its components. The Project authorizes land uses and activities that are in

20 some way inconsistent with the General Plan and its components.
53. Additionally and/or alternatively, Respondent failed to make the proper findings
21 required for approval of the Project under the PZL.
22 54.

23 Additionally and/or alternatively, Respondent's approval of the Project was based

24 on findings that are not supported by sufficient evidence in the administrative record.

55. Despite being presented with expert opinion and substantial evidence showing that
25 the Project conflicts with the General Plan, Respondent nevertheless approved the Project.
26 56. As a result of Respondent's violation of the PZL, Petitioner, its members, and the
27 general public have been harmed insofar as Respondent has approved a project that is
28 inconsistent with the land-use rules designed to protect the public from harmful development.

-13-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 C. The Project Violates Measure U. In particular:
an EIR for the Project led to the City failing to 2 57. The City's failure to prepare

3 identify and disclose the true impacts of the Project, especially on agriculture resources. Thus,
4 the following findings Measure U requires the City to make before converting any property in
5 active agricultural production on November 3, 1986 to non-agricultural use could not be made
6 by the City:
7 2. The proposed density increase will not cause adverse environmental

8 impacts, either individually or cumulatively, directly or indirectly.
a 3. The proposed density increase will not convert viable agricultural
10 land to non-agricultural uses.

11 4. The proposed density increase will not have a growth-inducing

NOLIVAOdHOO IVNOISSHAONI V NNVTA 2 NOINHIOOU IOHIIT 12 effect on other property.

13 5. The resulting use will be compatible with uses on adjacent land.
& 14 6. The proposed density increase will not require substantial expansion

15 of public infrastructure, facilities or services.
16 Notably, an eleventh hour addition the City imposed on the Project was for RPI to acquire and
17 develop additional access to the Property by extending a City street.
18 58. As a result of Respondent's violation of Measure U, Petitioner, its members, and
19 the City's electorate have been harmed insofar as Respondent has approved a project that the
20 voters intended Measure U to prohibit.

21 D. Propriety of Relief Under C.C.P. $§1085 et seq., and/or §§1094.5 et seq.

22 59. Respondent has the legal duty in making its determinations to comply with the
23 applicable law governing such legislative acts. In particular, Respondent has the legal and
24 nondiscretionary duty to act in accordance with the requirements of CEQA, the Guidelines, the
25 Government Code, and other applicable laws and regulations.
26 60. Respondent acted arbitrarily, capriciously, irrationally, and unreasonably, and
27 without any or an adequate evidentiary basis in failing or refusing to comply with the
28 requirements of CEQA, the Guidelines, the Government Code, and other applicable laws and
-14-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

2

3 regulations. At all times material hereto, Respondent had, and continues to have, the ability to

4 comply with its legal duties. Notwithstanding the efforts of Petitioner's members and others to

5 inform Respondent of its legal duties, and to induce Respondent to comply with its legal duties,
Respondent has failed and refused to perform these duties as described herein.

61. The decision of Respondent to approve the Project constitutes a final decision as
6 contemplated in Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

62. Petitioner has exhausted all available administrative remedies. There is no
8 provision known to Petitioner for any further administrative remedial action from the decision
9| of Respondent to approve the Project.

10 63.

11

g A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION LEIBOLD McCLENDON z MANN 12 Respondent has prejudicially abused its discretion by approving the Project
permitting the acts and omissions described herein to occur.
64. In acting and failing to act in the manner described above, Respondent has acted
13 in an arbitrary, capricious, and irrational manner lacking any reasonable basis, in violation of
14 Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1085

15 65. et seq.
Petitioner is beneficially interested in issuance of the peremptory writ of mandate
16 as prayed for hereafter. Petitioner will be seriously harmed if Respondent proceeds with the
17 Project without first complying with applicable laws and regulations.
18 66. At all times material hereto, Respondent has been able to perform its duties and
19 obligations as demanded by Petitioner. Respondent has, however, failed and refused to
20 undertake its obligations. Respondent has failed and refused to require or to perform any of the
21

22

23 above, notwithstanding the substantial evidence presented to Petitioner and others that such
failures and refusals are contrary to law and will have adverse consequences on Petitioner.
67.

24 Petitioner has no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at law other than the relief
sought in this petition. In acting and failing to act in the manner described above, Respondent
25 has prejudicially abused their discretion in approving the Project, in violation of Code of Civil
26 Procedures Section 1094.5 et seq.
27

28 PRAYER

WHEREFORE, Petitioner prays as follows:

-15-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 1. On the first cause of action, for a judgment finding Respondent failed to fully comply
2 with CEQA, the Guidelines, the PZL, and/or Measure U in approving the MND and the Project

3 and granting a peremptory writ of mandate pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure section 1085

4 et seq. and/or section 1094.5 et seq., commanding Respondent to set aside its approval of the
5 MND and the Project and ordering Respondent to take no further steps toward implementing the
6 Project unless and until it fully complies with CEQA and the Guidelines, and/or other applicable
7 laws and regulations.
8 2. For reasonable attorneys' fees in addition to any other relief granted;
9 3. For cost of suit incurred herein and for reasonable litigation expenses; and

10 4. For such other and further relief as the Court may deem just, equitable, or proper.

11

NNVW: 12 Dated: November 4, 2021 LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN, P.C.
NOLLVHOdHOO IVNOISSHIONd V 13 By: John G. McChendon John G. McClendon 8 14 Attorneys for Petitioner LEIBOLD McCLENDON COALITION TO SAVE REDLANDS 15 ORANGE GROVES
16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

-16-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1

2 VERIFICATION

3 State of California, County of Orange

4

5 John G. McClendon hereby declares:
am one of the attorneys for COALITION TO SAVE REDLANDS ORANGE GROVES, the
6 petitioner in this action. Such party is absent from the county of aforesaid where such attorneys

8 7 have their office, and I make this verification for and on behalf of such party for that reason. I

9

10 have read the foregoing Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and know its contents. T am

11 informed and believe on that ground allege that the matters stated in it are true.

LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN * 12 declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of California that the
foregoing is true and correct.

A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13 Executed this 4th day of November, 2021.

14

15 By: John G. McClendon

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

-17-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

EXHIBIT A

LEIBOLD MCCLENDON & MANN
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION

9841 IRVINE CENTER DRIVE, SUITE 230
Irvine, CALIFORNIA 92618
(949) 585-6300
FAX: (949) 585-6305 JOHN G. McCLENDON
john@CEQA.com
November 3, 2021

Via United States Postal Service
City of Redlands City Clerk's Office
35 Cajon Street, Suite 2
Redlands, CA 92373

Re: NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION -Public Resources Code $ 21167.5
[Coalition to Save Redlands Orange Groves v. City of Redlands]

Dear Mayor and City Council Members:

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the COALITION TO SAVE REDLANDS ORANGE GROVES
intends to commence an action in San Bernardino County Superior Court against the City of
Redlands in connection with its adoption of Resolution Nos. 8250, 8251, 8252, 8253, 8254,
8255, and 8262, approving the entitlements for the so-called "Bergamot Specific Plan" project (the "Project"). The action will allege that the City failed to comply with the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code § 21000 et seq.), and the State Guidelines for Implementing CEQA (Title 14, California Code of Regulations, § 15000 et seq.) prior to you approving the Project on October 5, 2021. The action may also challenge the City's approval of the Project based on violations of the Planning and Zoning
Law (Gov. Code $ 65000 et seq.), as well as other laws, ordinances, and/or regulations.

This notice is given pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.5.

Very truly yours,

LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN, P.C.
A H Tellohi
By: John G. McClendon

PROOF OF SERVICE

I I declare that I am over the age of 18 and not a party to the within action. am
employed in the County of Orange, State of California, and my business address is 9841 Irvine Center Drive, Suite 230, Irvine, California 92618.
On November 3, 2021, I served the foregoing document described as "Notice of Commencement of Action - Public Resources Code Section 21167.5" on the City of
Redlands and its City Council as follow:
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF REDLANDS
% CITY OF REDLANDS CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
35 CAJON STREET, SUITE 4
REDLANDS, CA 92373
idonaldson@cityofredlands.org/cduggan@cityofredlands.org
BY MAIL: By placing a true copy of such document in a sealed envelope addressed as set forth above. Iam "readily familiar" with this firm's practice for collection and processing correspondence for mailing. Under that practice, it would be deposited with the U.S. Postal Service on the same day this declaration was executed with postage thereon fully prepaid at Bonsall, California, in the ordinary course of business. Following ordinary business practice, I caused such envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid to be placed for collection in the United States Post Office at Bonsall, California.

0 BY OVERNIGHT COURIER: I caused such envelope to be deposited in a box or other facility regularly maintained by O GOLDEN STATE OVERNIGHT; O FEDERAL EXPRESS; 0[specify name of servicel with delivery fees fully provided for, or I delivered the envelope to a courier or driver of such service.

0 BYE-MAIL OR ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION: Byelectronic mail transmission
in *** pdf" format a true copy of such document(s) to each such party at the e-mail addresses set forth above.

[State] I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that
the above is true and correct.

O [Federal] I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct and
that am employed in the office of a member of the bar of this court at whose
direction the service was made.

Executed on November 3, 2021, at Fallbrook, California.
Mhoenedesee John G. McClendon

LEIBOLD MCCLENDON & MANN
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION

9841 IRVINE CENTER DRIVE, SUITE 230
IRVINE, CALIFORNIA 92618
(949) 585-6300
FAX: (949) 585-6305
JOHN G. McCLENDON
john@CEQA.com November 15, 2021

Via United States Postal Service
Honorable Robert A. Bonta, Attorney General
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
1300 "I" Street
Sacramento, California 95814-2919

Re: Coalition to Save Redlands Orange Groves v. City of Redlands, et al.
San Bernardino County Superior Court Case No. [***TBD***]

Dear Ms. Bonta:

Enclosed please find: copy of the Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate in the above- referenced action. This copy is provided to you in compliance with Public Resources Code section 21167.7. The litigation will challenge (among other things) the City of Redlands' failure to comply with the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code § 21000 et seq.), and the State Guidelines for Implementing CEQA (Title 14, California Code of Regulations, § 15000 et seq.) prior to approving a mitigated negative declaration and entitlements for the so-called "Bergamot Specific Plan Project" on October 5, 2021. Specifically, the City ignored the California Department of Conservation-Division of Land Resource Protection's letter urging the City to implement mitigation to offset the Project causing the permanent loss of approximately 58 acres of Prime Farmland and requesting further information pertaining to the Project. (See attached letter.)
Please acknowledge receipt of the enclosed Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate. Unless you request otherwise, we will not serve on your office any documents other than this initial pleading and any amended or supplemental initial pleadings.

Thank you for your attention to this matter, and please do not hesitate to contact me if you would like to discuss this matter further.

Very truly yours,

LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN, P.C.

By: John G. McClendon

California Gavin Newsom, Governor
Department of Conservation David Shabazian, Director

Division of Land Resource Protection

JUNE 7, 2021

VIA EMAIL: SREILLY@CITYOFREDLANDS.ORG
City of Redlands, Planning Division
Attn: Sean Reilly, Senior Planner
P.O. Box 3005
Redlands, CA 92373

Dear Mr. Reilly:

MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION FOR THE BERGAMOT SPECIFIC PLAN PROJECT, SCH#
2021050600

The Department of Conservation's (Department) Division of Land Resource Protection
(Division) has reviewed the Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Bergamot Specific
Plan Project (Project). The Division monitors farmland conversion on a statewide basis,
provides technical assistance regarding the Williamson Act, and administers various
agricultural land conservation programs. We offer the following comments and
recommendations with respect to the project's potential impacts on agricultural land
and resources.

Project Description

The project consists of both land use changes and physical improvements that would
result in the establishment of 317 single-family dwellings across three neighborhood
concepts, communal open space, a new public park, and public improvements to the
adjacent right-of-way.
Land use changes proposed by the project would remove the project area from the East Valley Corridor Specific Plan (EVCSP). Presently, the project site is zoned Science Research Park in the EVCSP, which is inconsistent with the General Plan. The project
proposes removing the site from the EVCSP and establishing a new specific plan consistent with the existing general plan land use of Low Density Residential. The project is located in the northwest portion of the City of Redlands in San Bernardino County,
and encompasses approximately 58 acres.
The project site is currently designated as Prime Farmland by the Department of
Conservation's Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program.1

California Department of Conservation, Division of Land Resource Protection, Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program, https://maps.conservation.ca.gov/DLRP/CIFF/

State of California Natural Resources Agency | Department of Conservation
801 K Street, MS 14-15, Sacramento, CA 95814
conservation.ca.gov | T: (916) 324-0850 | F: (916) 327-3430

Department Comments

Although conversion of agricultural land is often an unavoidable impact under CEQA
analysis, feasible alternatives and/or feasible mitigation measures must be considered.
In some cases, the argument is made that mitigation cannot reduce impacts to below
the level of significance because agricultural land will still be converted by the project,
and therefore, mitigation is not is required. However, reduction to a level below
significance is not a criterion for mitigation under CEQA. Rather, the criterion is feasible
mitigation that lessens a project's impacts. As stated in CEQA statue, mitigation may
also include, "Compensating for the impact by replacing or providing substitute
resources or environments, including through permanent protection of such resources in
the form of conservation easements."2
The conversion of agricultural land represents a permanent reduction in the State's
agricultural land resources. As such, the Department advises the use of permanent
agricultural conservation easements on land of at least equal quality and size as partial
compensation for the loss of agricultural land. Conservation easements are an
available mitigation tool and considered a standard practice in many areas of the State. The Department highlights conservation easements because of their
acceptance and use by lead agencies as an appropriate mitigation measure under
CEQA and because it follows an established rationale similar to that of wildlife habitat
mitigation.
Mitigation via agricultural conservation easements can be implemented by at least two
alternative approaches: the outright purchase of easements or the donation of
mitigation fees to a local, regional, or statewide organization or agency whose purpose includes the acquisition and stewardship of agricultural conservation easements. The conversion of agricultural land should be deemed an impact of at least regional
significance. Hence, the search for replacement lands should not be limited strictly to
lands within the project's surrounding area.
A source that has proven helpful for regional and statewide agricultural mitigation
banks is the California Council of Land Trusts. They provide helpful insight into farmland
mitigation policies and implementation strategies, including a guidebook with model
policies and a model local ordinance. The guidebook can be found at:
http://www.calandtrusts.org/resources/conserving-californias-harvest/
Of course, the use of conservation easements is only one form of mitigation that should
be considered. Any other feasible mitigation measures should also be considered.

2 Public Resources Code Section 15370, Association of Environmental Professionals, 2020 CEQA, California Environmental Quality Act, Statute & Guidelines, page 284, https://www.califaep.org/docs/2020_ceqa_book.pdf

Page 2 of 3

Conclusion

Thank you for giving us the opportunity to comment on the Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Bergamot Specific Plan Project. Please provide this Department with notices of any future hearing dates as well as any staff reports pertaining to this project. If you have any questions regarding our comments, please contact Farl Grundy, Associate Environmental Planner via email at Farl.Grundy@conservation.ca.gov.
Sincerely,

Monique Wilben
Monique Wilber
Conservation Program Support Supervisor

Page 3 of 3