1 LATHAM & WATKINS LLP Winston P. Stromberg (Bar No. 258252)
2 winston.stromberg@lw.com Lauren Glaser (Bar No. 313498)
3 lauren.glaser@/w.com 355 South Grand Avenue, Suite 100 4 Los Angeles, California 90071-1560 Telephone: 213.485.1234
5 Facsimile: 213.891.8763

6 Attorneys for Petitioner Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc.
7

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA

10

11 EQUITY LIFESTYLE PROPERTIES, INC.,| Case No.

12 Petitioner, VERIFIED PETITION-FOR WRIT OF
MANDATE
13 V.
ACTION BASED ON CALIFORNIA
14 COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA; SANTA
CLARA COUNTY BOARD OF ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT

15 SUPERVISORS, California Environmental Quality Act (Cal. Pub.

16 Respondents. Resources Code § 21000 et seq.); Code of Civil Procedure § 1085

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

LATHAM&WATKINSw
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

LOS ANGELES

1

2 Petitioner Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. (*Petitioner") hereby petitions for a writ of

3 mandate against Respondents County of Santa Clara ("County") and the Santa Clara County

4 Board of Supervisors ("Board" and collectively with County, "Respondents"), as follows:
INTRODUCTION

5 1. On May 25, 2021, the Board voted to reduce dramatically the areas in the
6 unincorporated County where recreational vehicle ("RV") parks are permitted. For decades, the

7 County's General Plan and Zoning Ordinance allowed RV parks in any one of four zoning
8 districts: Roadside Services (RS), General Use (A1), Hillsides (HS), and Rural Residential (RR).

9 2. Yet, under the pretense of advancing the County's interest in developing
10 affordable housing, and with no meaningful consideration of the multiple alternatives proposed
11

12 by County staff to accomplish that goal, the Board voted to amend the County's General Plan

13 and Zoning Ordinance to prohibit RV parks in the A1, HS, and RR zoning districts, leaving them

14 as permitted uses in only one zoning district-RS-which comprises only seven small areas or

15 parcels throughout the entire unincorporated County, as depicted below.

16

17

18

19

20

M CASU

22

23

24 2G

25 PATSO 9 OP

RENAET .cO
ESO

26 PCEN 9

27

28

LATHAM&WATKINSw
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
LOS ANGELES VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

2

3. Not only were the Board's amendments to the County's General Plan and Zoning

2 Ordinance (the "Amendments," attached hereto as Exhibit A) an act of irresponsible planning

3 that will have negative effects on the County's economy and tourism, but the Board violated the

4 California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") when it voted to approve them.

5 4. Disregarding its duty to conduct environmental review prior to approving the

6 Amendments, the Board claimed that the Amendments fall within CEQA Guidelines] section

7 15061, subdivision (b)(3), the "common sense" exemption from CEQA. Respondents erred

8 because the common sense exemption does not apply if there is even a slight showing of a

9 reasonable possibility of a significant environmental impact. CEQA mandated that the
10 Respondents demonstrate "with certainty that there is no possibility that the [Amendments] may
11 have a significant effect on the environment." (CEQA Guidelines §15061, subd. (b)(3),
12 emphasis added.) Respondents did not meet this very high burden.

13 5. The only document Respondents provided to justify their application of the
14 common sense exemption to the Amendments merely restated the legal standard for the
15 exemption without offering even a single finding of fact in support. The County's findings failed
16 to establish that there is "no possibility" that the Amendments "may" have a significant effect on
17 the environment.

18 6. To the contrary, the Amendments would likely result in reasonably foreseeable
19 physical changes that could in turn result in significant environmental impacts. By failing to

20 conduct any environmental review, Respondents have defeated the core purpose of CEQA,
21 which is to protect the health and well-being of the environment and inform the public of
22 environmental impacts. By not following CEQA's procedural requirements, Respondents failed

23 to proceed in a manner required by law.

24

25

26

27 CEQA authorizes and directs the State Office of Planning and Research to adopt guidelines for the implementation of CEQA by public agencies. (Pub. Resources Code, § 21083.) These
28 guidelines are found at title 14, California Code of Regulations, sections 15000, et seq. ("CEQA Guidelines") and are binding on all state and local agencies, including Respondents.

LATHAM&WATKINS«
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
LOS ANGELES 3

1 THE PARTIES

2 7. Petitioner Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. is, and at all times referenced herein

3 was, a Maryland corporation that owns and operates manufactured home communities and RV

4 campgrounds throughout the United States. Petitioner, through its subsidiaries MHC TT, L.P.

5 and MHC Property Management, L.P., owns and operates Thousand Trails Morgan Hill

6 ("TTMH") RV Resort, a 66-acre RV campground with over 300 RV sites located in the
7 unincorporated County at 12895 Uvas Road. Petitioner, through its subsidiary MHC Morgan
8 Hill Expansion. L.P. also owns a parcel of land adjacent to TTMH that Petitioner proposes to
use to expand TTMH (the "Expansion Project"). The parcel on which Petitioner proposes the

10 Expansion Project is zoned Rural Residential (RR).

11 8. Respondent County of Santa Clara is, and at all times referenced herein was, a
12 political subdivision of the State of California. The County is responsible for administering and

13 carrying out its laws and all applicable federal and state laws, including CEQA, in its jurisdiction
14 over land use, zoning, and planning in the unincorporated areas of the County.

15 9. Respondent Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors is, and at all times
16 referenced herein was, the duly elected five-member governmental body for Santa Clara County.

17 The Board is charged with the responsibilities under CEQA for conducting proper environmental
18 review of discretionary actions, including but not limited to legislative actions such as the
19 Amendments.

20 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

21 10. This Court has jurisdiction over the matters alleged in this Petition pursuant to
22 Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, and Public Resources Code sections 21168 and 21168.5.

23 11. Venue in this Court is proper pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 394, in
24 that Respondents are located within the County of Santa Clara.

25 STANDING

26 12. Petitioner has direct and substantial beneficial interest in the County's full and
27| complete compliance with CEQA and all other applicable laws in approving the Amendments.

28 Absent obtaining judicial relief, Petitioner's proposed Expansion Project may not be able to

LATHAM&WATKINSW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE ATTORNEYS AT LAW
LOS ANGELES 4

1 move forward as a result of the Amendments, which make RV parks a prohibited use in the

2 Rural Residential (RR) zoning district.2

3 13. The County owed a mandatory duty to act within the boundaries of its legal
4 authorities under CEQA before exercising its discretion to approve the Amendments.

5 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS

6 14. On May 28, 2021, or soon thereafter, the County filed a Notice of Exemption

7 ("NOE") for the Amendments with the Santa Clara County Clerk-Recorder. (The NOE is

8 attached hereto as Exhibit B.) The statute of limitations for a CEQA challenge to the County's

9 decision to approve the Amendments under CEQA exemption expires 35 days after posting of
10 the NOE, on or about July 2, 2021.

11 15. This Petition was filed in Santa Clara County Superior Court on or before July 2,
12 2021, prior to the expiration of any and all applicable statutes of limitation.

13 CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT

14 16. CEQA, found at Public Resources Code sections 21000, et seq., is based on the

15 principle that "the maintenance of a quality environment for the people of this state now and in
16 the future a is a matter of statewide concern." (Pub. Resources Code, § 21000, subd. (a).)

17 17. In CEQA, the California Legislature has established procedures designed to
18 achieve this overall purpose, principally the environmental impact report ("EIR"). The EIR is
19 the very heart of CEQA. (Dunn-Edwards Corp. V. Bay Area Air Quality Management Dist.

20 (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 644, 652, disapproved of on other grounds by Western States Petroleum

21

22 2 8 Section 8 of the amendments to the Zoning Ordinance and Section 2 of the Resolution
23 amending the General Plan, both adopted by the Board on May 25, 2021, exempt from the Amendments "any pending application for a Recreational Vehicle Park that the County
24 Department of Planning and Development has deemed complete . on or before the effective date of this ordinance, provided the application is not abandoned. Any such complete
25 application shall comply with all provisions of the County General Plan and [Zoning Ordinance] applicable to Recreational Vehicle Parks that were in effect immediately preceding the effective
26 date of this ordinance." (Exhibit A, at 67, 71.) Petitioner, through the aforementioned subsidiaries, filed a use permit application for the Expansion Project long before the Board
27 adopted the Amendments. The County Planning Department, and subsequently the County Planning Commission acting on appeal, both incorrectly determined Petitioner's use permit
28 application to be incomplete. Those determinations will be the subject to a separate mandamus action filed in this Court at a later date, and are referenced here for context.

LATHAM&WATKINSuP
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
LOS ANGELES 5

1 Assn. v. Superior Court (1995) 9 Cal.4th 559.) CEQA's procedures, including the EIR, provide

2 both for the determination and full public disclosure of the potential adverse effects on the
3  environment of discretionary projects that governmental agencies propose to approve, and

4 require a description of feasible alternatives to such proposed projects and feasible mitigation

5 measures to lessen their environmental harm. (Pub. Resources Code, § 21002.)

6 18. CEQA has two primary goals. First, CEQA is intended to allow decision makers

7 and the public to understand the potential, significant environmental effects of a project. (CEQA

8 Guidelines, § 15002, subd. (a)(1); Citizens of Goleta Valley v. Bd. of Supervisors (1990) 52

9 Cal.3d 553, 564.) "[The EIR's] purpose is to inform the public and its responsible officials of

10 the environmental consequences of their decisions before they are made. Thus, the EIR 'protects

11 not only the environment but also informed self-government.' (Ibid.) The EIR has been
12 described as "an environmental 'alarm bell' whose purpose is to alert the public and its

13 responsible officials to environmental changes before they have reached ecological points of no
14 return." (Mountain Lion Coalition v. Fish & Game Com. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 1043, 1053.)

15 19. Second, CEQA requires that public entities avoid or reduce environmental

16 impacts when "feasible" by requiring "environmentally superior" alternatives and all feasible
17 mitigation measures. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15002, subds. (a)(2) and (3); Citizens of Goleta

18 Valley, supra, 52 Cal.3d at 564.) The EIR provides agencies and the public with information

19 about the environmental impacts of a proposed project and identifies "ways that environmental

20 damage can be avoided or significantly reduced." (CEQA Guidelines, § 15002, subd. (a)(2).)

21 20. CEQA is not merely a procedural statute; it imposes substantive responsibilities

22 on agencies that propose to approve projects, requiring that public agencies refrain from
23 approving projects that harm the environment unless and until all feasible mitigation measures

24 are employed to minimize that harm. (Pub. Resources Code, §§ 21002, 21002.1, subd. (b).)

25 21. The alternatives analysis is the is "core of an EIR." (Citizens of Goleta Valley,

26 supra, 52 Cal.3d at 564.) The purpose of a CEQA alternatives analysis is to identify and analyze

27 alternatives to a project that will avoid or substantially lessen its significant environmental
28 impacts. (Pub. Resources Code, § 21002.) Thus, "before conducting CEQA review, agencies

LATHAM&WATKINSwP
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

LOS ANGELES 6

1 must not 'take any action' that significantly furthers a project 'in a manner that forecloses

2 alternatives or mitigation measures that would ordinarily be part of CEQA review of that public
3 project."* (Save Tara v. City of West Hollywood (2008) 45 Cal.4th 116, 138; see also CEQA
4 Guidelines, § 15004, subd. (b)(2).)

5 22. "Environmental review derives its vitality from public participation." (Ocean

6 View Estates Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Montecito Water Dist. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 396,
7 400.) "The requirement of public review has been called 'the strongest assurance of the

8 adequacy of [environmental review under CEQA]." (Mountain Lion Coalition v. Fish & Game
Com. (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 1043, 1051.) Failure either to comply with the substantive

10 requirements of CEQA or to carry out the full CEQA procedures so that complete information as

11 to a project's impacts is developed and publicly disclosed constitutes prejudicial abuse of

12 discretion that requires invalidation of the public agency action, regardless of whether full

13 compliance would have produced a different result. (Pub. Resources Code, § 21005.)

14 Exemptions to CEQA

15 23. Although CEQA provides some exemptions for certain projects (see, e.g., Pub.

16 Resources Code, §§ 21080, subd. (b), 21080.01 et seq.), exemptions are narrowly construed and

17 may not be expanded beyond the scope of their statutory language. (Mountain Lion Foundation

18 v. Fish & Game Com. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 105, 125.)

19 24. One CEQA exemption set forth in the CEQA Guidelines, known as the "common
20 sense" exemption, narrowly applies "[w]here it can be seen with certainty that there is no
21 possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment."
22 (CEQA Guidelines, § 15061, subd. (b)(3), emphasis added.)

23 25. The lead agency "has the burden of establishing the [common sense] exemption,

24 i.e., that there is no possibility the project may cause significant environmental impacts." (Cal.
25 Farm Bur. Federation v. Cal. Wildlife Conservation Bd. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 173, 195,
26 emphasis in original.)

27 26. Unlike other exemptions, the common sense exemption does not provide an
28 implied finding that the project will not have a significant environmental impact. (Davidon

LATHAM&WATKINSwP
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
LOS ANGELES 7

1 Homes v. City of San Jose (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 106, 116.) Instead, the "exemption requires

2 the agency to be certain that there is no possibility the project may cause significant
3 environmental impacts." (Ibid. at 117.)

4 27. A party challenging the applicability of the common sense exemption "need only

5 make a 'slight' showing of: reasonable possibility of a significant environmental impact." (Cal.
6 Farm Bur. Federation, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at 195; Davidon Homes, supra, 54 Cal.App.4th at

7 117.) "If legitimate questions can be raised about whether the project might have a significant
8 impact and there is any dispute about the possibility of such an impact, the agency cannot find

9 with certainty that a project is exempt." (Davidon Homes, supra, 54 Cal.App.4th at 117)

10 Therefore, "if a reasonable argument is made to suggest a possibility that a project will cause a
11 significant environmental impact, the agency must refute that claim to a certainty before finding
12 that the exemption applies." (Ibid. at 118, emphasis in original; Rominger v. County of Colusa
13 (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 690, 704 [*"For the commonsense exemption to apply, the county would
14 have to show as a factual matter, based on the evidence in the record, that there is no possibility

15 that the approval of the Adams subdivision may result in a significant effect on the environment .

16 . ."].) Thus, even the possibility of a significant environmental effect necessitates conducting

17 an initial environmental study, and a notice of exemption is improper. (See Myers v. Bd. of
18 Supervisors (1976) 58 Cal.App.3d 413, 427.)

19 GENERAL ALLEGATIONS

20 County's General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments

21 28. Prior to enacting the Amendments to its General Plan and Zoning Ordinance
22 which are the subject of this Petition, the County was broadly permissive of recreational RV
23 parks. In unincorporated Santa Clara County, there are currently seven operational RV parks,
24| including TTMH, which has been in continuous operation for approximately fifty years.

25 29. This long history of recreational RV parks in Santa Clara County was enabled by
26 land use regulations that encouraged the operation of safe and enjoyable recreational RV parks
27 such as TTMH. Prior to its adoption of the Amendments, the County permitted recreational RV

28

LATHAM&WATKINSw VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
LOS ANGELES 8

1 parks in four zoning districts: Roadside Services (RS), General Use (A1), Hillsides (HS), and

2 Rural Residential (RR).

3 30. Recently, the County has recognized the potential that RV and mobile home parks

4 may serve not only recreational purposes, but also the County's interest in increasing its
5 affordable housing stock. On March 7, 2018, the Department of Planning and Development for

6 the County of Santa Clara (*Planning Department") published a report studying how RV parks

7 may be used for the development of long-term affordable housing. Notably, none of the key

8 findings of that report advocates reducing the number of zoning districts wherein RV parks may

9 be developed. (County of Santa Clara Department of Planning and Development Recreational

10 Vehicle (RV) Parks Study (*2018 RV Parks Study"), attached hereto as Exhibit C, at 97.)
11 31. On February 25, 2020, the Planning Department delivered a presentation
12 elaborating on the County's goal to widen the use of RV parks to include residential uses.

13 (Recreational Vehicle Park (RV Park) General Plan and Zoning Amendments ("RV Park
14 Presentation"), attached hereto as Exhibit D.) In that presentation, the Planning Department
15 outlined four options to effectuate that goal: (1) maintain current regulations, (2) allow RV parks
16 to accommodate affordable housing in rural areas, (3) allow residential RV parks at current base
17 zoning densities, or (4) restrict RV parks only to areas zoned as Roadside Services. (Exhibit D

18 at 111.)

19 32. On March 25, 2021-over three years after the Planning Department released the
20 initial RV Parks Study-the Santa Clara County Planning Commission ("Planning

21 Commission") held a meeting to discuss recommending that the Board adopt one of the above

22 four options submitted by the Planning Department. In advance of that meeting, Petitioner
23 submitted a comment letter voicing its opposition to the most restrictive of the four: namely, to

24 prohibit RV park development, expansion, and operations in all but Roadside Services districts.

25 In addition to describing the harms that would arise from such a blanket prohibition, Petitioner
26 specifically notified the Planning Commission in that letter that the proposed Amendments were
27 not exempt from CEQA and required environmental review prior to adoption. (March 25, 2021
28 Letter to Planning Commission, attached hereto as Exhibit E, at 123.)

LATHAM&WATKINSw
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
LOS ANGELES 9

33. Despite Petitioner's comment letter, the Planning Commission voted to
2 recommend the Board's approval of the Amendments, which would prohibit RV parks in all

3 zones except Roadside Services.

4 34. Before the Board was scheduled to vote on the Amendments, Petitioner submitted

5 further comment letters to the Board reiterating its opposition. In one of those letters, Petitioner

6 stressed that adoption of the Amendments would both unfairly harm Petitioner and other RV.
7 park operators in the County and violate the County's obligation under CEQA to conduct

8 environmental review before adoption. (May 24, 2021 Letter to Board, attached hereto as

9 Exhibit F, at 129.)

10 35. Nevertheless, on May 25, 2021, without meaningful debate and with only a
11 cursory consideration of the viable alternatives submitted by the Planning Department, the Board
12 followed the recommendation of the Planning Commission, approving the Amendments and
13 banning the development and use of RV parks in all zoning districts but Roadside Services.
14 36. In light of this legislative history, it is clear that the Amendments were not
15 primarily intended, as the County purports, to effectuate its valid goals of expanding the

16 County's stock of affordable housing. This is a mere pretext.

17 37. Rather, the County intended to reduce the number of RV parks operating in the
18 County by drastically reducing the areas where RV parks can be developed, expanded, and

19 operated.

20 38. Although the Amendments expand the definition of RV parks to be inclusive of

21 residential, as well as recreational, RV parks, they simultaneously prohibit all RV parks from
22 | large swaths of the County in which they were previously allowed-that is, in General Use,
23 Hillsides, and Rural Residential districts. The County's purported aim to expand the use of RV
24 parks for affordable housing is a falsity, as the Amendments accomplish precisely the opposite
25 by severely limiting the locations where RV parks are permitted.

26 39. Moreover, as mentioned, the County repeatedly declined multiple alternative
27 options proffered by the Planning Department that would have better advanced the County's
28 housing goals through RV park development. The County could have chosen any number of

LATHAM&WATKINSwL
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

LOs ANGELES 10

more permissive options, including those originally presented by the Planning Department to

2 allow RV parks as affordable housing in rural areas or at current base zoning densities. Instead,

3 the County chose the least effective and most restrictive option by placing draconian limitations

4 on where RV parks may be developed.

5 County's CEQA Exemption Determination

6 40. The County's arbitrary decision to amend its General Plan and Zoning Ordinance

7 to restrict RV parks was unlawful under CEQA.

8 41. On March 16, 2021, before the Planning Commission voted to recommend that

9 the Board approve the Amendments, County staff issued a statement finding that the proposed

10 Amendments were exempt from CEQA. Specifically, County staff claimed that the
11 Amendments qualified as a "common sense" exemption.

12 42. This determination was incorrect and unsupported by any factual findings.
13 43. The County failed to offer even a modicum of evidence to support its far-reaching
14 conclusion that, "with certainty," there is "no possibility" that the changes brought about by the
15 Amendments "may" result in significant environmental effects. Instead, the County merely

16 restated the legal standard for the common sense exemption under CEQA, providing only the
17 conclusory finding that "it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the proposed
18 a amendments would have a significant effect on the environment."

19 44. The Planning Commission and Board relied on County staff's erroneous and
20 conclusory findings regarding the application of the common sense exemption to the

21 Amendments, and after the Board approved the Amendments, the County included these same
22 findings in its NOE. (Exhibit B, at 82.)

23 45. The County's claim that the common sense exemption applies is wrong. The
24 Amendments do have the possibility of resulting in significant effects on the environment.
25 Substantial evidence in the record demonstrates that the amendments would result in reasonably

26 foreseeable physical changes that could then result in significant environmental impacts.
27 46. As such, the County violated its obligation under CEQA to conduct an
28 environmental review of the Amendments prior to their adoption.

LATHAM&WATKINSw
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

LOS ANGELES 11

1 Reasonably Foreseeable Environmental Impacts of the Amendments

2 47. Contrary to the County's conclusory and unsupported findings, the Amendments

3 would likely result in reasonably foreseeable physical changes that could in turn result in
4 significant environmental impacts.

5 48. First, by rendering RV parks a nonconforming use in Hillside, Rural Residential,
6 and General Use districts, the Amendments encourage the redevelopment of existing RV parks
7 located in those districts into uses that are allowed by right. Such uses include single family

8 residences with accessory units, agricultural processing, recycling facilities, and mobile home

9 parks. (County of Santa Clara Zoning Ordinance Table 2.20-2; Government Code § 65852.7.)

10 49. Converting an existing RV park into any one of said uses could result in

11 significant environmental impacts. For example, converting an RV park to a single family

12 residential subdivision would require the construction of additional permanent structures,

13 requiring the installation or expansion of utilities, the transportation of building materials to the

14 site, and use of construction equipment to build the new structures. This could result in a variety a

15 of environmental impacts, including, but not limited to, air quality, greenhouse gas emissions,
16 biological resources, noise, and transportation/traffic. Once completed, the housing development

17 would be filled with permanent residents, who would commute to and from their homes and

18 would require public services, including police and fire protection, schools, libraries, and parks
19 and recreational facilities.

20 50. Similarly, if an existing RV park was redeveloped with an agricultural processing
21 facility, that conversion could result in significant impacts associated with transporting product

22 to and from the site, the use and transportation of hazardous materials or waste, and the facility's

23 water and energy use.

24 51. Each of these scenarios would result in physical changes to the environment and
25 likely further result in significant environmental impacts. The County has ignored these
26 reasonably foreseeable possibilities in asserting that the common sense exemption applied to the
27 Amendments. That assertion was therefore erroneous.

28

LATHAM&WATKINSw
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
LO6 ANGELES 12

1 52. Furthermore, concentrating RV parks in Roadside Services districts would also

2 likely result in significant environmental impacts.

3 53. The California Air Resources Board-the state agency charged with protecting

4 the public from the harmful effects of air pollution-has acknowledged that siting sensitive land

5 uses near freeways or heavily-travelled roadways results in public exposure to air pollution and

6 associated health impacts. (See California Air Resources Board - Air Quality and Land Use

7 Handbook: A Community Health Perspective (April 2005).)

8 54. Guests at RV parks often spend a good deal of their stay outdoors, as many

9 travelers do when camping. Thus, RV parks are sensitive uses similar to residences and schools
10 and should not be encouraged in areas adjacent to roadways, including parcels within the

11 Roadside Services zone.

12 55. By relegating RV parks to be permitted only in Roadside Services districts, the

13 County has directed all future RV park development to be concentrated in those zones, despite
14 the environmental risks associated with siting such sensitive land uses near roadways.

15 56. The Amendments thus have the potential to expose sensitive receptors to
16 substantial pollution concentrations, resulting in potentially significant health risks to

17 individuals. Accordingly, the County's failure to acknowledge such potential impacts dooms its
18 it claim it was "certain" that no environmental impacts would occur as a result of the amendments.
19 In sum, the County erred in utilizing the common sense exemption to avoid CEQA review.

20 EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

21 57. Petitioner has exhausted all administrative remedies available to it, and has no

22 plain, speedy, or adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law, to ensure appropriate County
23 review of the Amendments. All violations alleged herein were raised by Petitioner or others
24 during the administrative process for the Project.
25 58. Petitioner has written detailed letters to the County explaining its opposition to the
26 Amendments-all to no avail. The County failed to engage meaningfully with Petitioner
27 regarding the Amendments and its potentially significant environmental impacts.

28

LATHAM&WATKINSw
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
Los ANGELES 13

1 59. Petitioner has complied with Public Resources Code Section 21167.7 by serving a

2 copy of this Petition on the California Attorney General. (See Exhibit G.)

3 60. Petitioner has also complied with Public Resources Code Section 21167.5 by

4 providing the County with notice of intention to commence the action (See Exhibit H.)

5 61. Petitioner requests that the County prepare the administrative record pursuant to

6 Public Resources Code Section 21167.6(a), as reflected in the Request for Preparation of the
7 Administrative Record filed concurrently with this Petition.

8 IRREPARABLE HARM

9 62. Absent injunctive relief, Petitioner and the public will suffer irreparable harm
10 from significant impacts that the County has failed to avoid or mitigate through environmental
11 review of the Amendments.

12 63. Damages are inadequate to compensate Petitioner for Respondents' violations of

13 CEQA and the significant impacts to health, safety, and the environment that the Amendments

14 will create.

15 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION

16 Writ of Mandate Due to Ineligibility for CEQA Exemption - Code of Civil Procedure § 1085 and Public Resources Code §§ 21168, 21168.5
17 (Against All Respondents and Defendants)

18 64. Petitioner incorporates herein and realleges the allegations in paragraphs 1
19 through 63, inclusive, as if fully set forth herein.

20 65. An actual and justiciable controversy has arisen and now exists between
21 Petitioner and Respondents, concerning whether Respondents' environmental determination

22 complies with Public Resources Code sections 21002, 21002.1, and 21084 regarding the
23 requirements for conducting environmental review, and determining that a project is exempt
24 from CEQA.

25 66. Respondents improperly exempted the Amendments from CEQA purportedly
26 relying on CEQA Guidelines section 15061, subdivision (b)(3), the common sense exemption.
27

28 PA

LATHAM&WATKINS
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
LOS ANGELES 14

67. The common sense exemption only applies "[w]here it can be seen with certainty

2 that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the
3 environment." (CEQA Guidelines, § 15061, subd. (b)(3).)

4 68. A party, such as Petitioner, challenging the applicability of the common sense

5 exemption "need only make a 'slight' showing of a reasonable possibility of a significant

6 environmental impact." (Cal. Farm Bur. Federation, supra, 143 Cal.App.4th at 195.) It is the
7 Respondents' burden to establish the applicability of the common sense exemption, i.e., "that
is 8 there is no possibility the project may cause significant environmental impacts." (Ibid.)

9 69. Here, at minimum, the Amendments present a reasonable possibility of significant
10 environmental impacts.

11 70. Respondents failed to establish with certainty that there is no possibility the
12 Amendments may cause significant environmental impacts.
13 71. Respondents did not evaluate or disclose to the public the potentially significant
14 environmental impacts from the Amendments, as required by CEQA.

15 72. In sum, Respondents improperly relied on the common sense exemption to CEQA
16 in deciding to forego any environmental review of the Amendments. Respondents, therefore,
17 violated CEQA by failing to perform any environmental review prior to adoption of the
18 Amendments.

19 73. Petitioner respectfully requests that the Court set aside the Amendments and the

20 County's determination that the Amendments are exempt from CEQA as contrary to law, and

21 remand the matter to Respondents to conduct the requisite environmental review prior to any

22 future reconsideration of the Amendments.

23 74. Reversing and remanding the environmental determination is necessary and

24 appropriate at this time and under these circumstances.

25 PRAYER FOR RELIEF

26 WHEREFORE, Petitioner respectfully prays for judgment as follows:
27 A. For a writ of mandate ordering Respondents to set aside their determination that
28 approval of the Amendments was exempt from CEQA;

LATHAM&WATKINSw
ATTORNEYS AT LAW VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
LOS ANGELES 15

1 B.

2 For writ of mandate ordering Respondents to set aside and rescind their
approval of the Amendments, including Ordinance No. NS-1200.378 and Resolution No. BOS-

3 2021-63;

4 C. For an order enjoining Respondents from taking any action in furtherance of the
5 Amendments that could result in a significant adverse impact on the environment unless and

6 until a lawful approval of the Amendments is made by Respondents after full compliance with
7 CEQA;

8 D. For reasonable attorneys' fees and costs; and

9 E.

10 For such further relief as the Court deems just and proper.

11 Dated: July 1, 2021

12 Respectfully submitted,

13 LATHAM & WATKINS LLP Winston P. Stromberg Lauren Glaser

14 By:

15 Ato Stuo Winston P. Stromberg

16 Attorneys for Petitioner Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc.

17

18

19

20

21
22 Nb 25

26

27

28

LATHAM&WATKINSUP
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
LOs ANGELES 16 VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit Description Page(s)

A General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments 18-76

B Notice of Exemption 77-82

C 2018 RV Parks Study 83-99

D RV Park Presentation 100-115

E Letter to Planning Commission, dated March 25, 2021 116-126

F Letter to Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors, dated May 24, 2021 127-133

G Notice Letter to California Attorney General 134-135

H Notice Letter to Santa Clara County Clerk 136-137

17

EXHIBIT A

Exhibit A - 018

ORDINANCE NO. NS-1200.378

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA
CLARA AMENDING APPENDIX I, ZONING, OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA
ORDINANCE CODE RELATING TO RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK
REGULATIONS

SUMMARY

This ordinance amends Appendix I, Zoning, of the County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, to modify definitions, use classifications,
and permitting requirements for Recreational Vehicle Parks, and to modify existing requirements and standards for developing and maintaining Recreational Vehicle Parks.

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Section 2.10.030 of Chapter 2.10, Article 2 of Appendix I, Zoning, of the County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, is amended as follows:
§ 2.10.030 Residential Use Classifications
Residences. This classification includes primary residences and excludes other types of residences separately defined within this section. This classification also includes the renting of Adopted: IZOZIGZISO
rooms and provision of meals within a dwelling by the resident family or household to not more than two other individuals (for rooming houses, see Rooming Houses, Fraternities & Sororities). It also includes employee housing that provides exclusive accommodation for six (6) or fewer employees, pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section 17021.5, and emergency, supportive, and transitional housing for six (6) or fewer clients.
All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Single-Family. One dwelling unit on a single lot, completely detached from any other
dwelling unit. This classification includes a manufactured home.
2. Two-Family. Two dwelling units within the same structure, each having its own kitchen and bathroom facilities.
3. Multi-Family. Three or more dwelling units within the same structure, each having its own kitchen and bathroom facilities.
Residential Accessory Structures and Uses. This classification includes detached buildings and structures whose use is entirely incidental to the primary residential use, and which do not contain living space or sleeping quarters. Residential accessory uses consist of activities customarily associated with (or otherwise reasonably associated with) the primary residential use, and include such activities when they occur on private communal open space within a residential development. Private, noncommercial gatherings hosted by residents or property owner(s) shall be considered residential accessory uses.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 1 of 49
Exhibit A - 019 MAY 2 5 2021 [05 4ç4

On lots with no legally established residential use, certain limited structures ancillary to maintenance and security of the land (e.g. fences, gates, well or irrigation hardware) shall be considered permitted accessory structures under this classification.
On lots with no legally established residential use, one limited storage building per lot is permitted under this classification in rural base zoning districts. The floor area of such storage buildings is restricted to 120 square feet maximum. Height shall not exceed 10 feet in height at any point, and such buildings shall comply with all other applicable provisions of Section 4.20.020. Such storage buildings may not include plumbing or electricity in their construction. Any such building in an "-sr" combining district shall be subject to the scenic roads provisions of Section 3.30.030.
Accessory buildings shall be limited to two (2) internal plumbing fixtures except as provided by subsection 4.20.020(I).
Accessory dwelling unit-ADU. A residential dwelling unit that provides independent living facilities and is located on the same lot as the primary dwelling (single-family or multifamily) to which it is an accessory use. It includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation on the same parcel as the primary dwelling to which it is accessory. Accessory dwelling units include standard ADUs, movable tiny homes, and Junior ADUs. ADUs include an efficiency unit as defined in Health and Safety Code section 17958.1, and a manufactured home as defined in Health and Safety Code section 18007. This use classification is intended to be consistent with Government Code section 65852.2 and all other state laws as
those laws are amended from time to time. If there is any conflict between this use classification and state law, state law shall prevail. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.015]
1. Standard ADU. A standard accessory dwelling unit that provides complete independent living facilities. It includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cating, cooking, and sanitation. It may be attached or detached. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.015]
2. Movable Tiny Home. A detached structure on wheels used for dwelling purposes that provides complete independent living facilities for one or more persons and is located on the same lot as the primary dwelling (single-family or multifamily) to which it is an accessory use. See Section 1.30.030 "Movable tiny home."
3. Jumior ADU. A dwelling unit that is no more than 500 square feet in size, and is contained entirely within a primary single-family residence or a detached accessory dwelling unit, and both shall have independent entrances. It includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation facilities on the same parcel as the primary dwelling to which it is accessory. A junior accessory dwelling unit may include separate sanitation facilities, or may share sanitation facilities with the existing dwelling unit. The junior accessory dwelling unit must contain either a full kitchen or an efficiency kitchen consisting of cooking facilities with appliances, food prepartion counters, and storage cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to
the junior accessory dwelling unit. This use classification is intended to be consistent with Government Code sections 65852.2 and 65852.22 and all other state laws as those laws are amended from time to time. If there is any conflict between this use classification and state law, state law shall prevail. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.015]

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 2 of 49 Exhibit A - 020

Agricultural Employee Housing. Housing occupied by individuals who are primarily engaged in an agricultural operation, as defined in § B29-2(b) of the Ordinance Code. Family members of
such individuals may also live in the same unit. Agricultural employee housing is not required to be located on the same property as an agricultural operation. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.040]
All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Small-scale permanent. Permanent housing facilities that include no more than six
(6) dwelling units or eighteen (18) beds in group living quarters. This may include mobilehomes and manufactured homes. Complete individual or shared living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation facilities, including full kitchen and bathroom, shall be provided on the same lot. Where agricultural employee housing consists of a combination of both individual dwelling units and group living quarters, each dwelling unit shall count as three (3) beds toward the maximum of eighteen (18)
beds in group living quarters. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.040]
2. Large-scale permanent. Permanent housing facilities that include more than six (6) dwelling units or eighteen (18) beds in group living quarters, or housing that does not meet the supplemental use regulations for small-scale agricultural employee housing. Complete individual or shared living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation facilities, including a full kitchen and bathroom, shall be provided on the same lot. [Criteria/Findings §§ 3.80.050, 4.10.040]
3. Seasonal. Temporary housing that is present on site for no more than 180 days per
year and is not subject to the Special Occupancy Parks Act, Health & Safety Code § 18860 et seq. Complete individual or shared living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation facilities, including a full kitchen and bathroom, shall be provided on the same lot. This housing is limited to movable tiny homes, which for the purpose of seasonal agricultural employee housing, may be located on a lot without a primary residence. The property owner shall declare the specific occupancy period dates for each housing unit annually and submit that information to the Planning Director by January 31 of each year. All such housing shall be removed from the site outside of the declared occupancy period dates. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.040]
Caretaker's Residences. Dwelling units incidental and subordinate to significant nonresidential use established by issuance of a use permit. Such units must be necessary for the practical operation of the primary use, and the occupancy of such units shall be limited to owners or employces of the primary use and their families.
Domestic Animals. The keeping of domesticated animals for use or enjoyment within the home or premises by the resident occupants, including non-commercial equestrian activities. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Dogs & Cats. The keeping of dogs and cats.
2. Small Animals -Limited. Includes the following small animals: rabbits, guinea pigs, chicken and fowl (but excluding roosters, peafowl, guinea fowl, geese or quacking ducks), and similar species as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
3. Horses. The keeping of horses.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 3 of 49 Exhibit A - 021

Home Occupations. Businesses conducted incidental to the residential use of a property, generally within a dwelling by resident occupants. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. General. Uses conducted exclusively within the dwelling by the resident, with allowance for one (1) nonresident employee. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.180]
2. Expanded. Uses conducted in the dwelling or accessory building by the resident, with allowance for one (1) nonresident employee, limited outdoor storage of materials, and not more than two vehicles. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.180]
Recreational Vehicle Parks. (Residential) Facilities providing spaces for recreational vehicles as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 18010 and providing electric, water, and sanitary hookups for each recreational vehicle. Recreational Vehicle Parks may also include ancillary facilities that provide services to onsite recreational vehicles, such as a manager's and/or caretaker's unit, office, retail sales, shared bathroom facilities, small recreational facilities, picnic tables, storage lockers, and cooking areas. This use classification applies to Recreational Vehicle Parks for which the owner has obtained an exemption from the short-term stay requirements from the County. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.280]
Residential-Communal Institutional. A facility containing rooms or apartments (or both) but having communal dining facilities and lounges, and communal services, such as housekeeping, organized social and recreational activities, and support services appropriate for the residents. Includes college dormitories, monasteries and other such communal living facilities related to permitted institutional use classifications. Excludes nursing homes and similar uses (see Community Care Facilities). Also excludes rooming houses (see Rooming Houses, Fraternities & Sororities). [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.300]
Rooming Houses, Fraternities & Sororities. Includes fraternity and sorority housing for students, boarding houses, and similar group residential uses. Also includes singleroom occupancy residential facilities where secure rooms are individually rented to a one- or two- person household. Excludes those uses classified as Residential -Communal Institutional.
Temporary Residences during House Construction. Mobile homes, recreational vehicles, or existing homes occupied during the construction, repair, or remodel of a permanent dwelling on the same property. The temporary residence may remain on the property for no longer than 90 days from the date of occupancy of the permanent dwelling, or for two years from the date of either initial building permit issuance or the date of any casualty that rendered the primary residence uninhabitable, whichever occurs first. The provisions of subsection 4.20.090(B) shall apply to emergency housing following casualty. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.380]
Temporary Agricultural Residence. A recreational vehicle or movable tiny home that
provides temporary housing to a person engaged in an on-site agricultural operation, as defined in B29-2(b) of the Ordinance Code, and their family members. For the purpose of temporary agricultural residences, a movable tiny home or recreational vehicle may be located on a property without a primary residence on-site. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.385]

//

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks .Page 4 of 49 Exhibit A - 022

SECTION 2. Section 2.10.040 of Chapter 2.10, Article 2 of Appendix I, Zoning, of the County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, is amended as follows:
§ 2.10.040 Non-Residential Use Classifications
The notation in parentheses following the title of each primary classification indicates the type of use for purposes of ensuring general plan consistency and correlation with types of allowable uses defined within the general plan.
Adult Uses. (Commercial) A building, premises or portion thereof consisting of, including, or
having the characteristics of any or all of the following three subcategories. For regulatory purposes, this classification shall supersede any other classification under which a qualifying adult use may also fall (e.g. retail sales, theaters, restaurants and bars). [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.020].
1. Adult Book/Video Store. An establishment having as a substantial or significant portion of its stock-in-trade for sale to the public (or certain members thereof) videos,
magazines, erotic devices and accessories, books, and/or other such items which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (see definitions,
below).

2. Adult Movie Theater. An establishment regularly used for the presentation of
motion pictures distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to, specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons or customers,
3. Adult Entertainment Establishment. An establishment regularly used for the
presentation or exhibition or featuring of topless or bottomless dancers, strippers, or any entertainers regularly displaying specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons or customers or regularly engaged in specified sexual activities, regardless of
the state of dress.
The following definitions apply to uses within this classification:
Specified sexual activities: (a) Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; (b) acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy or bestiality; or,
(c) fondling or other erotic handling of human genitals, pubic region, buttock, or female breast.
Specified anatomical areas: (a) Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock and female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or, (b) human malo genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
Agriculture. (Agricultural) Raising of animals, crops, or crop trees, including horticulture, crops grown within greenhouses, vineyards, crop harvesting, livestock farming, apiaries, aviaries,
worm farms, fish farms, fur farms, 4-H projects, Future Farmers of America projects, or those of
similar groups, grazing, and ranching. This classification excludes uses that have the potential to
result in significant off-site impacts (see Dairies, Feed Lots, Industrial Hemp, Livestock Auction

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 5 of 49
Exhibit A - 023

Yards, Mushroom Farms, Poultry & Egg Farms -Commercial). All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. General. The raising of agricultural commodities other than livestock.
2. Livestock. The raising of livestock.
3. Urban. Agricultural activity within an urban setting, scaled and operated to be compatible with adjacent urban land uses. Includes growing of agricultural products and limited raising of livestock. Also includes community supported agriculture, communal gardens, and educational demonstration gardens. Livestock shall be limited to no more than 12 small animals as provided in Note 6 of Table 2.30-1. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.025].
Agricultural Accessory Structures & Uses. (Agricultural) Structures and uses ancillary to and supporting onsite agricultural operations including but not limited to barns and sheds, corrals, wells, compost storage, machinery storage, and small offices.
Agricultural Equipment Sales & Services. (Commercial) Establishments for the sale, rental, and repair of machinery, equipment and supplies for use in agricultural operations.
Agricultural Processing. (Agricultural) Processing facilities for the handling, processing, packing, packaging, storing and shipping of agricultural commodities grown primarily in Santa Clara County or neighboring counties. Does not include processing of meat, poultry, or animal products (see Butcheries), nor timber or wood processing (see Manufacturing/ Industry) or industrial hemp (see Industrial Hemp: Agricultural Processing). Does not include routine harvesting and handling activities incidental to agriculture (see Agriculture). All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.030]:
1. Small Scale. 2,400 square feet or less of covered space devoted to processing activities.
2. Medium Scale. Between 2,400 and 10,000 square feet of covered space devoted to processing activities.
3. Large Scale. More than 10,000 square feet of covered space devoted to processing activities.
Agricultural Research. (Agricultural) Establishments for experimental greenhouse and field growing of agricultural commodities, landscaping and seeds, including experimental use of herbicides, pesticides, and other agricultural practices. Does not include agricultural research facilities for industrial hemp (see Industrial Hemp: Agricultural Research).
Agricultural Sales. (Commercial) Facilities for the retail sale of agricultural commodities, operated by a single seller on a seasonal or year-round basis. All uses within this classification
shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Limited. Sales of agricultural products predominantly grown or produced within Santa Clara County. Includes operations where customers have access to the growing areas and pick the product themselves, such as Christmas tree farms, pumpkin patches, and apple or fruit picking. May include a stand or similar sales structure no larger than 1,200 square feet.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks 6 Page 6 of 49 Exhibit A - 024

2. Farmers' Markets. Facilities used by multiple sellers for sales of agricultural
commodities directly to the public.

Agriculturally Related Entertainment & Commercial Uses. (Commercial) Visitor oriented services, sales and attractions with an agricultural theme that are conducted in conjunction with
on-site agricultural uses. Such uses include but are not limited to food and retail sales, tasting
rooms, reception facilities, outdoor entertainment areas. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.050]
Aircraft Landing Strips -Private. (Residential) Facilities for takeoff, landing and storage of
small, noncommercial airplanes. This classification does not include helipads (see Helipads).
Antennas -Commercial. (Infrastructure). Towers and similar structures mounted with equipment for the transmitting and/or receiving of television, radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based structures. This classification does not include private, non-commercial antennas, nor does it include cellular or other wireless telecommunications facilities (see Wireless Telecommunication Facilities).
1. Minor. Structures 55 feet or less in height.
2. Major. Structures over 55 feet in height.
Auction Houses. (Commercial) Establishments for the display and sale of goods through a bidding process. This classification does not include animal auction facilities (see Livestock
Auction Yards).
Automotive Sales & Services. (Commercial) Establishments for the sale, rental, maintenance,
and repair of automobiles and other passenger vehicles, such as light-duty trucks, boats and motorcycles. Does not include heavy-duty or commercial truck sales and services (see Truck
Sales & Services). All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following
subcategories:
1. Limited Repair. Minor automobile and vehicle repair and accessory installation,
including but not limited to oil changes, tune-ups, wheel alignment, and muffler and
shock absorber replacement and repair.
2. General Repair. Major repair services for automobiles and other light-duty vehicles,
including electric and battery service, glass replacement, reupholstering, bodywork,
painting, motor and transmission rebuilding, and tire recapping.
3. Sales & Rentals. Establishments for the sale, leasing and/or rental of operable
automobiles, boats, motorcycles, or other vehicles, including onsite storage of
vehicles for sale or rent.
4. Service Stations. Gas stations, including ancillary convenience retail and auto
services. Service stations that contain more than two repair bays are considered
"limited repair."
5. Storage. Storage of new vehicles or operable used vehicles intended for future use or for resale as whole vehicles. This classification does not include junkyards.
6. Washing. Establishments providing hand-operated, self-service, or mechanical
automobile washing services.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 7 of 49
Exhibit A - 025

Banks. (Commercial) Financial institutions including federally chartered banks, savings associations, industrial loan companies, and credit unions providing retail banking 31 Santa Clara County Zoning Ordinance Chapter 2.10: Definitions: Use Classifications Rev: March 2020 services to individuals and businesses. This classification does not include payday lending businesses or check cashing businesses, and as a result, the establishment, expansion, or relocation of such businesses is prohibited. The term "payday lending business" as used herein means retail businesses owned or operated by a "licensee" as that term is defined in California Financial Code section 23001(d), as amended from time to time. The term "check cashing business" as used herein means a retail business owned or operated by a "check casher" as that term is defined in California Civil Code section 1789.31, as amended from time to time.
Bed & Breakfast Inns. (Commercial) Establishments providing short term overnight accommodations with a maximum of six guestrooms, including kitchen and dining room facilities for guests. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.060]
Billboards. (Commercial) Signs advertising activities conducted offsite. This classification does not include temporary real estate signs, seasonal agricultural sales signs, or temporary agricultural stand signs (see Chapter 4.40: Signs).
Broadcasting. (Infrastructure) Facilities for broadcasting, recording, and other electronic communication services, including radio, television or recording studios, telephone switching centers, and telegraph or cable television transmitting offices. This classification does not include commercial antennas or antennas that are an accessory use to a principal use on the same parcel (see § 4.20.020 Accessory Structures).
Business Services. (Commercial) Establishments providing services oriented to businesses, including but not limited to accounting, tax preparation, document preparation and photocopying services, messengers, printing, janitorial services, wholesaling without significant on-site inventories of stock, and other similar services. This classification excludes professional offices and automobile and equipment maintenance and repair.
Butcheries. (Industrial) Establishments for slaughter and basic processing and packaging of animals for meat products. This classification does not include manufacture of nonfood items from animal products such as tanning and soap manufacturing (see Manufacturing: General).
Camps & Retreats. (Recreational) Outdoor-oriented recreational, meeting, lodging, and associated facilities which have a low population density, are a low intensity use, and which minimally alter the natural environment. Includes hostels, guest ranches, lodges, and educational and group retreats, but does not include tourist-oriented resorts, or hotels or motels (see Hotels and Motels). [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.070]
Cemeteries. (Institutional) Grounds or facilities for the burial or other interment of deceased humans or animals. Uses include cemeteries, columbaries, and mausoleums, and limited associated facilities such as offices and chapels. [Critria/Findings § 4.10.080]
Clubs -Private & Nomprofit. (Institutional) Indoor meeting, recreational, or social facilities of a private fraternal or bencvolent organization primarily for use by members or guests. This classification does not include clubs with outdoor recreation facilities such as swim and racket
clubs or country clubs.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 8 of 49 Exhibit A - 026

Colleges & Vocational Schools. (Institutional) Institutions of higher education, typically granting recognized degrees. This use classification includes vocational and technical schools.
Community Care. (Institutional) Facilities providing care and supervision to children or adults (or both), as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 1502. This classification includes, but is not limited, to day-care facilities and facilities for the physically disabled, mentally impaired, and abused or neglected children, supportive housing facilities, transitional housing, nursing homes and assisted living facilities. Services may be provided on either a 24- hour (residential) or less than 24-hour (day) basis. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories: [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.090]
1. Limited. Facilities serving six or fewer persons, excluding members of the provider's family and staff. Facilities serving between seven (7) and 14 children or minors (age
18 and younger) that are licensed as large-family day-care homes according to the requirements of Division B24 of the County Ordinance Code are also included.
Supportive and transitional housing facilities serving six (6) or fewer clients are
classified as Residences.
2. Expanded. Facilities serving more than six persons that are not otherwise licensed and operated as large-family day-care homes under Division B24 of the County
Ordinance Code.
Contractors' Facilities. (Industrial) Facilities for construction contractors' businesses. Includes office, heavy equipment and material storage, and limited facilities for maintenance of equipment owned and operated by the business owner.
Dairies. (Agricultural) Establishments where cows or goats are maintained for the production of milk or other dairy products for commercial distribution or sale. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.110]
Emergency Shelters. (Institutional) Facilities that provide short-term residential occupancy and supportive services to seven (7) or more clients. No client may be denied emergency shelter
because of an inability to pay.
All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
[Criteria/Findings § 4.10.115]
1. Small-Scale. Facilities serving between seven (7) and 14 clients.
2. Large-Scale. Facilities serving 15 or more clients.
Facilities serving six (6) or fewer clients are classified as Residences.
Entertainment -Seasonal Outdoor. (Commercial) Facilities for spectator entertainment including but not limited to outdoor movie and live performance theaters or stages.
[Criteria/Findings § 4.10.120]
Feed Lots. (Agriculture.) Establishments primarily engaged in the fattening of livestock in a confined area. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.130]
Field Research. (Institutional). Research activities, field studies and educational activities (e.g.
student field research) that are dependent on a natural, open setting. Examples include biological,
geological or atmospheric studies.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 9 of 49
Exhibit A 027

Food Preparation & Catering Services. (Commercial) Preparation of food and beverages primarily for off-site consumption. This classification includes catering businesses and limited- scale food processing facilities such as bakeries. Establishments at which 25 percent or more of transactions are sales of prepared food for on-site consumption are classified as "Restaurants and Bars."
Funeral & Cremation Services. (Institutional/ Commercial) Services involving the preparation of human dead, visitation and other pre-interment services. Excludes cemeteries and columbaries (see Cemeteries).
Golf Courses & Country Clubs. (Recreational) Golf courses and related uses such as driving ranges, refreshment services, locker rooms, facilities for limited sales of golf supplies and accessories, swimming pools, tennis courts, fitness center, social areas, and eating and drinking facilities for members, users, and their guests. May also include overnight accommodations for temporary occupancy of members, users, and guests, that are of an appropriate and ancillary scale to the golf course development. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.140]
Golf Driving Ranges. (Recreational) Golf driving ranges not ancillary to golf courses. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.150]
Health & Fitness Clubs. (Recreational) Commercial facilities used for physical activity for health and recreational purposes. Such facilities usually include exercise equipment and locker rooms, and may include swimming pool, gymnasium, sauna, steam and whirlpool bath facilities and incidental sales of refreshments, toiletries, and health or exercise equipment.
Helipads. (Residential) Facilities for the takeoff, landing and storage of helicopters used for private non-commercial purposes. This classification does not include fixed-wing aircraft landing strips (see Aircraft Landing Strips -Private). [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.160]
Historic Structure -Use Conversion. (Commercial/ Institutional) Structures which are registered cultural heritage resources as defined within the zoning ordinance may be 34 Santa Clara County Zoning Ordinance Chapter 2.10: Definitions: Use Classifications Rev: March 2020 allowed certain limited exceptions to allowed uses, setbacks, and height requirements, as determined by the approval authority. Uses to which such structures may be converted as a form of adaptive re-use include, but are not limited to, the following: [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.170]
1. Museums
2. Studios -Arts & Crafts
3. Clubs -Private & Non-Profit
4. Retail Sales-General
5. Restaurants & Bars
6. Hotels and Bed & Breakfast Inns
7. Other uses, deemed similar in nature to those described above, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
Hospitals & Clinics. (Institutional) State-licensed facilities providing medical, surgical, psychiatric, or emergency medical services to sick or injured persons. This classification includes

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 10 of 49
Exhibit A - 028

facilities for inpatient or outpatient treatment as well as training, research, and administrative services for patients and employees. Excludes those uses classified as "Medical Offices," as well as public hospitals and clinics not subject to zoning regulations pursuant to state law.
[Criteria/Findings § 4.10.190]
Hotels & Motels. (Commercial) Establishments providing more than six guest units, with no or
minimal kitchen facilities in the units, intended for occupancy on a commercial basis. Guest units
a may be reached either from a common entrance or directly from the outside of the building. This
classification includes incidental restaurants or reception/meeting facilities.
Hunting & Fishing Preserves. (Recreational) Natural or improved open space areas and related facilities specifically designated for hunting or fishing.
Industrial Hemp. (Agricultural) The term "industrial hemp" as used herein has the same meaning as that term is defined in California Food and Agricultural Code section 81000(a)(6), as amended. The term "industrial hemp operations" includes the following subcategories:
1. Cultivation. The growing of industrial hemp, including non-experimental seed breeding for cultivation. Includes routine harvesting and handling activities incidental to growing and for non-experimental seed production. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.195]
2. Agricultural Research. Establishments for experimental greenhouses, field or indoor growing of industrial hemp for the development of new strains, varieties, and cultivars of seeds; experimental use of herbicides, pesticides; and other experimental
agricultural practices. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.195]
3. Agricultural Processing. Processing facilities for the handling, processing, packing, packaging, storing and shipping of industrial hemp grown primarily in Santa Clara County or nearby counties. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of
the following subcategories [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.030 and § 4.10.195]:
a. Small-Scale. 2,400 square fcet or less of covered space devoted to processing
activities.
b. Medium-Scale. More than 2,400 and up to 10,000 square feet of covered space
devoted to processing activities.
C. Large-Scale. More than 10,000 square feet of covered space devoted to processing activities.
Informational Displays. (Commercial) Staffed or un-staffed kiosks or displays for the purposes of education or tourist information. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the
following subcategories:
1. Small. A kiosk of 400 square feet or less.
2. Large. A kiosk of more than 400 square feet.
Kennels -Commercial. (Commercial) Commercial facilities for the shelter, brecding, sale, or
training of three (3) or more dogs or six (6) or more cats over four (4) months of age on a commercial basis. This classification allows for incidental activitics such as exercising,

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 11 of 49
Exhibit A - 029

grooming, and incidental medical care. Veterinary clinics and hospitals are not included (see "Veterinary Clinics & Hospitals"). [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.200]
Laboratories & Testing Services. (Commercial) Electronic, mechanical, biological or other scientific or analytical testing occupying 2,400 square feet of floor area or less (this limitation shall not include minimal ancillary office or other non-laboratory floor area). For larger laboratories see "Manufacturing-Limited.?"
Laundries -Industrial. (Commercial/Industrial) Large-scale laundry and dry-cleaning operations primarily serving corporate or commercial customers for linen, clothing, or other textiles. Diaper services catering to residential customers are included. Industrial laundries do not include retail laundry or dry-cleaning establishments (see Retail Sales and Services).
Livestock Auction Yards. (Agricultural) Establishments primarily used for the sale of livestock by public auction, including the incidental temporary storage of livestock in conjunction with their sale. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.210]
Machinery & Equipment Services. (Commercial) Rental, storage, and incidental sales of machinery and equipment. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Limited. Rental and incidental sale of supplies and small equipment such as tools, appliances, business equipment, electronic equipment, furniture, and recreational equipment.
2. General. Rental and storage of heavy machinery, equipment, and incidental sale of *

supplies, including building, construction, nursery and farm cquipment. See Retail Sales for sale of building supplies.
Maintenance & Repair Services. (Commercial) On-site repair and incidental sales of supplies for small household goods, machinery, tools, equipment, and appliänces, conducted within an
enclosed building. This classification includes furniture refinishing and repair and excludes maintenance and repair of vehicles or industrial equipment.
Manufactured-Home Sales & Rentals. (Commercial) Establishments for the sale or rental of prefabricated manufactured housing. This classification does not include establishments for the sale or rental of recreational vehicles (see Automotive Sales & Services).
Manufacturing/Industry. (Industrial) Production and processing of goods from raw materials or fabricated items. Also includes the dismantling, reduction or destruction of materials or items, and storage of salvage materials and items. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Small Scale Rural. Small-scale manufacturing activities primarily serving operations in surrounding rural areas, involving limited manufacturing or assembly of finished products from previously prepared materials. Enclosed floor area for such uses shall not exceed 2,400 square feet (this limitation shall not include minimal ancillary office or other non-manufacturing floor area). This 36 Santa Clara County Zoning Ordinance Chapter 2.10: Definitions: Use Classifications Rev: March 2020

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 12 of 49 Exhibit A - 030

classification includes but is not limited to pallet and bin repair and manufacturing
and nursery equipment manufacturing.
2. Limited. Operations involving limited product assembling, mixing, or packaging of such a nature that off-site impacts are minimal. Includes assembling or mixing where previously processed components or manufactured parts produced off-site are
assembled into a finished product or blended together to form noncombustible and non-explosive product. Includes product packaging, such as bottling, canning, packing, wrapping, and boxing of products assembled or manufactured off-site.

Examples include, but are not limited to, the production of the following: clothes,
furniture (where wood is milled off-site), pharmaceuticals, hardware, toys,
mechanical components, electric or electronic components, small vehicle assembly, and computer software.
3. General. Manufacturing of products from processed or unprocessed raw materials,
where the finished product is non-combustible and non-explosive. Also includes storage, dismantling, reduction or destruction of items or materials. The nature of such manufacturing may produce noise, vibrations, illumination, odors, or particulate that is perceptible to adjacent land users but is not significantly offensive or obnoxious. The use may include product packaging or any ancillary activity compatible with this classification or the classification Manufacturing/
Industry: Limited.
Examples include, but are not limited to, the production of the following: glass
products made from manufactured glass; clay and pottery products; food and beverages; candy and other confectionery products; computer hardware; products
made from rubber, plastic, or resin; converted paper and cardboard products; and fabricated metal products made from semi-finished metals.
4. Intensive. Manufacturing of products from raw or unprocessed materials, where the
finished product may be combustible or explosive. This category also includes storage, dismantling, reduction or destruction of items or materials. This category
shall also include any establishment or facility using large unscreened outdoor
equipment or structures such as conveyor belt systems, cooling towers, cranes, storage silos, or similar equipment that cannot be integrated into the building design, or engaging in large-scale outdoor storage. This category also includes any industrial use that generates noise, odor, vibration, illumination, or particulate that may be
offensive or obnoxious to adjacent land uses or requires a significant amount of on- site hazardous chemical storage or use. This use shall include any packaging of the product being manufactured on-site.
Examples include, but are not limited to, the production of the following: largescale food and beverage operations; lumber, milling, and planning facilities; aggregate, concrete, and asphalt plants; foundries, forge shops, open air welding, and other
intensive metal fabrication facilities; chemical blending, mixing, or production; and plastic processing and production; junkyards; scrap metal recycling and salvage; and vehicle dismantling, wrecking and crushing.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378 Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 13 of 49
Exhibit A - 031

Massage Establishments. (Commercial) Fixed places of business where massage is administered for compensation or from which a massage business or service for compensation is operated. "Massage Establishment" does not include establishments where massage is administered as an ancillary service within the scope of a license to perform services as (a) a barber, cosmetologist, esthetician, manicurist, electrologist, apprentice, barber instructor or cosmetology instructor, under the California Barbering and Cosmetology Act; or (b) a practitioner of the healing arts, under Division 2 of the California Business and Professions Code (Business and Professions Code, § 500 et seq.).
Museums. (Institutional) Facilities displaying or preserving objects of interest in history, arts, humanities or sciences, including related educational programs, that are open to the public.
Mushroom Farms. (Agricultural) Establishments primarily used for the cultivation and subsequent distribution and sale of mushrooms. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.220] §
Nonprofit Institutions. (Institutional) Facilities providing direct programs or services to the community on a not-for-profit basis. This classification includes but is not limited to quasi-public facilities such as food banks, blood banks, private libraries, community centers, community- serving organizations (such as a YMCA or YWCA), and other charitable and philanthropic institutions. May also include Emergency Shelters: Small Scale, as ancillary uses. [Criteria/Findings $ 4.10.230]
Nurseries. (Commercial) Sale and cultivation of ornamental trees, shrubs, and plants, including incidental sale or rental of garden and landscape materials and equipment. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Retail. Sale of plants and related materials primarily and directly to members of the public, including retail sale of locally grown plants.
2. Wholesale. Sale of plants on a wholesale basis primarily and directly to retailers or landscape contractors, with less than 20 percent of transactions to the general public.
Offices. (Commercial) Facilities used for offices of firms or organizations providing professional, executive, management, or administrative services or offices for physicians, dentists, or chiropractors, including laboratories incidental to the medical use. This classification excludes home offices that meet the criteria for "Home Occupations."
Oil and Gas Extraction. (Resource Extraction) The drilling for and production of oil, natural
gas and other hydrocarbon substances from the ground and the temporary on-site storage of such substances.
Parking Services & Facilities. (Commercial) Parking lots or multilevel parking structures.
Personal Services. (Commercial) Services and incidental sales of a personal nature, including but not limited to beauty salons, barber shops, music and dance instruction studios, and diet centers. This classification excludes massage establishments (see Massage Establishments).
Petroleum Products Distribution. (Industrial) Bulk distribution of gasoline, oil, natural gas, propane, or other petroleum or fuel products. Does not include scrvice stations (see Automotive Sales and Services: Service Stations).

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 14 of 49 Exhibit A - 032

Poultry & Egg Farms -Commercial. (Agricultural) Establishments where fowl are raised or kept in confined areas or facilities for the primary purpose of commercial distribution or sale of birds or eggs. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.240]
Radio-Controlled Model Aircraft Facilities. (Recreational) Landing strips and associated facilities that are administered and supervised by a recognized radio-controlled model aircraft
organization for flying of propeller-driven or un-powered model aircraft meeting the Official Model Aircraft Regulations of the Academy of Model Aeronautics. [Criteria/Findings §
4.10.250]
Reception Facilities. (Commercial) Indoor or outdoor facilities used for receptions, parties,
weddings, or other similar gatherings. Kitchen and dining rooms may be included.
[Criteria/Findings § 4.10.260]
Recreation-Commercial. (Recreation/Commercial) This classification includes but is not
limited to active commercial recreation uses such as a bowling alley, paintball, skating rink, rock
climbing, and video and amusement arcade.
Recreational Playgrounds and Sports Fields. (Recreational) Sports fields and play areas
operated by a non-profit recreational organization. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.270]
Recreational Vehicle Parks. (Recreational) Facilities providing spaces for recreational vehicles
as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 18010 and providing electric, water, and sanitary hookups for each recreational vehicle. Recreational Vehicle Parks may also include
ancillary facilities that provide services to onsite recreational vehicles, such as a manager's and/or caretaker's unit, office, retail sales, shared bathroom facilities, small recreational
facilities, picnic tables, storage lockers, and cooking areas. This use classification applies to Recreational Vehicle Parks for which the owner has not obtained an exemption from the short-
term stay requirements from the County. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.280]
Recycling Facilities. (Industrial) Facilities for the collection, handling, and recycling of
previously used materials or manufacturing by-products as raw materials or finished products.
All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1, Collection Facilities -Consumer Recycling, Collection facilities for recycling of
cans, bottles, plastic, paper, and other recyclable items and materials. Includes
facilities certified by the State Department of Conservation and meeting the
requirements of the California Beverage Container Recycling and Litter 39 Santa
Clara County Zoning Ordinance Chapter 2,10: Definitions: Use Classifications Rev:
March 2020 Reduction Act of 1986 and any other applicable state laws. Includes
reverse vending machines. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.285]
2. Recycling/Processing Facilities -Consumer Waste. Recycling, storage, and
reprocessing of consumer waste certified by the State Department of Conservation and meeting the requirements of the California Beverage Container Recycling and Litter Reduction Act of 1986 and any other applicable state laws.
3. Concrete, Asphalt, and Soil Recycling. Crushing, recycling, storage, and
reprocessing of concrete, asphalt, and soil. This classification does not include storage
of topsoil as part of an approved quarry reclamation plan. May be conditioned or

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 15 of 49
Exhibit A • 033

limited in terms of days and hours of operation, vehicle access, types of materials to be recycled or stored onsite, size and location of processing equipment and storage areas, construction or improvement of roads, surety bonds, or other matters. Such limitations or restrictions may be based on location and characteristics of the site, including parcel size, level of traffic, adjoining uses and environmental setting.
4. Composting & Wood Recycling. Composting, reduction, and recycling of vegetation, wood, and other non-hazardous organic wastes, including food wastes. This classification does not include composting or other treatment of sludge materials from sewage treatment plants.
5. Hazardous Materials Recycling. Recycling operations involving processing of chemicals or other hazardous materials.
Religious Institutions. (Institutional) Facilities for religious worship and incidental accessory
uses. This classification includes churches, synagogues, mosques, temples and similar places of worship. May also include Emergency Shelters: Small Scale, as ancillary uses. Excludes monasteries and convents as primary uses (see Residential - Communal Institutional). [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.290]
Restaurants & Bars. (Commercial) Establishments serving prepared food and beverages (see Food Preparation & Catering for establishments where less than 25 percent of transactions are sales of food prepared for on-site consumption). All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Limited-Service Eating Places. Establishments that primarily serve prepared food to the general public for on-site consumption. with nO sales or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
2. Full-Service Eating Places. Establishments that serve prepared food alcoholic beverage may be sold and/or served to the patrons. where any

3. Drinking Places. Establishments known as bars, taverns, night clubs or drinking places that primarily engage in preparing and serving alcoholic beverages to the general public for on-site consumption. These establishments may also provide limited food services.
Retail Sales & Services. (Commercial) Establishments engaged in retail sale of goods or provision of services. This classification includes, but is not limited to, food and beverage sales (such as grocery stores, liquor stores and delicatessens), convenience stores, clothing stores, automobile parts stores, hardware and home improvement stores, specialty stores, retail printing and office services, picture framing, laundromats, and retail dry cleaning establishments. Does not include automobile service stations, agricultural sales, or any other uses separately classified. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Local-Serving. Establishments that primarily serve surrounding neighborhoods, that are operated completely within an enclosed building, and whose floor area does not exceed 1,200 square feet. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.310]

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 16 of 49 Exhibit A - 034

2. General. Establishments that are oriented to a customer base beyond local residents
and that are operated within an enclosed building, or which are larger than 1,200
square feet.
3. Outdoor Sales & Storage. Retail cstablishments that involve outdoor storage of merchandise, including but not limited to building materials, monument sales, and wood sales. Does not include automobile sales (see Automotive Sales & Services:
Automobile Sales).
Rodeos & Equestrian Events. (Commercial) Any activity where spectators pay to view the exhibition or competition of the traditional skills of cowboys, such as riding of rough stock,
roping and timed events, and equestrian events including handling, competition and exhibition of
horses. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.320]
Schools. (Institutional) Facilities for primary or secondary education, including elementary, middle, and high schools. Does not include public school district facilities that meet all criteria
for exemption from zoning regulations, pursuant to state law, and does not include uses classified
as "Colleges & Vocational Schools." [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.330]
Solar Energy Conversion Systems - Commercial. (Infrastructure) Facilities used for the conversion of solar energy for the commercial sale of electricity. Does not include systems that are used primarily to supply energy to an on-site residential, agricultural or other permitted use(s), and which are regulated as accessory uses (see § 4.20.020). [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.345] All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Minor. Facilities covering eight (8) acres or less and involving only minor structures
other than energy conversion equipment. Structures must be 35 feet or less in height. Land coverage calculations shall include the gross land area utilized by the systems
(whether enclosed or unenclosed by security fences) including all areas covered by
access roadways and parking used exclusively to support the facility. Multiple
facilities proposed in conjunction that cover greater than eight (8) acres shall not meet this definition.
2. Major. Facilities that do not meet the definition of Solar Energy Conversion Systems
Commercial - Minor.
Sport Shooting. (Recreational) Ranges and incidental facilities such as offices and training areas
for outdoor target shooting, sporting clay shooting, and similar shooting activities. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.350]
Stables -Commercial. (Commercial) Commercial facilities for the boarding, care, riding and exercising of horses, including riding rings, exercise areas and instruction facilities. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.360]
Studios -Arts & Crafts. (Commercial) Work space for artists, including photographers, or artisans practicing fine or performing arts or applied crafts. This classification also includes sales of items produced on-site.
Surface Mining. (Resource Extraction) As defined in California Public Resources Code Section
2735 as 'surface mining operations,' the process of obtaining minerals, such as sand, gravel,

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 17 of 49
Exhibit A - 035

rock, aggregate, or similar materials by removing overburden and mining directly from mineral deposits, by open pit mining of naturally exposed minerals, by use of the auger method, by dredging, and by quarrying. Also includes surface work incident to an underground mine. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.370]
Swim & Tennis Clubs. (Recreational) Swimming pools, tennis courts, and related uses such as locker rooms, showers, and refreshment areas for members, users and their guests.
Taxidermy. (Commercial) Embalming, stuffing and mounting of animals, birds and fish.
Theaters. (Commercial) Commercial facilities devoted to showing motion pictures, or for live dramatic, dance, musical or other performance.
Timber Harvest Operations -Commercial. (Resource Extraction) The cutting and removal of commercial timber species or other solid wood forest products from timber lands for commercial purposes, together with all the preparations, work, and restoration activities incidental thereto. This classification does not include operation of a Christmas tree farm (see Agricultural Sales: Limited).
Truck & Railroad Terminals. (Infrastructure) Freight terminals for goods transported by truck or rail, with associated facilities for the loading and transfer of goods.
Truek Sales & Services. (Industrial) Facilities for repair, sales or storage of heavy-duty, commercial trucks, truck trailers and recreational vehicles. All uses within this classification
shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Repair. Establishments for the repair of trucks and related equipment. The repair of light-duty trucks is classified as Automotive Services: General Repair.
2. Sales. Establishments for the sales or leasing of trucks and related equipment. The sale of light-duty trucks is classified as Automotive Services: Sales & Rentals.
3. Storage. Establishments for the storage of truck and related equipment. The storage of light-duty trucks is classified as Automotive Services: Storage.
Underground Mining. (Resource Extraction) The mining and extraction of subterranean mineral deposits by means of a shaft or tunnel.
Utilities and Public Facilities. (Infrastructure) Facilities operated by a public or quasi-public agency or other entity for the purpose of providing utility and infrastructure services such as water, power, sewer, or telephone. Commercial antennas are not included (see Antennas Commercial or Wireless Telecommunication Facilities). All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Minor. Un-staffed facilities involving only minor structurcs. Buildings, structures and other equipment may not occupy more than 800 square feet. Buildings and equipment cabinets must be 12 feet or less in height, and other structures must be 35 feet or less in height. Minor utilities include but are not limited to small drainage channels, water storage tanks with a capacity of 50,000 gallons or less, small sewer or
water pump stations, and above- or below-ground distribution or transmission lines or pipes.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 18 of 49 Exhibit A - 036

2. Major. Utility facilities that do not meet the definition of Utilities Minor, or that have the potential to have significant effect on the surrounding environment. This
classification includes but is not limited to power generating plants or substations; refuse collection, transfer, and disposal facilities; flood control or drainage facilities; water reservoirs; and water or wastewater treatment plants.
Veterinary Clinics & Hospitals. (Commercial) Establishments for medical and surgical treatment of domestic and farm animals, including animal grooming and boarding of animals receiving medical care for no more than 30 days.
Warehousing & Storage. (Commercial/Industrial) Establishments providing storage facilities as a primary commercial or industrial use. All uses within this classification shall fit within one of
the following subcategories:
1. Indoor. Includes self-storage of household goods, and storage of commercial or
industrial goods prior to their distribution to wholesale and retail outlets. Incidental
loading facilities and management offices are included.
2. Outdoor. Storage of commercial or industrial goods on open lots, outside of enclosed buildings, prior to distribution to wholesale and retail outlets.
Well-Drilling Operations. (Commercial) Establishments providing well-drilling services,
including incidental on-site storage of equipment and machinery.
Wholesaling & Distribution. (Commercial) Indoor storage and distribution of merchandise, packages, and bulk goods. This classification includes parcel delivery services, mail-order sales,
importing and sale of imported goods, and wholesale distribution. Associated activities such as packaging and crating are also permitted. For wholesaling without stock, see Business Services.
Wind Energy Conversion Systems - Commercial. (Infrastructure) Commercial facilities for the conversion of wind energy to electricity. Does not include "small wind energy systems" as defined in Government Code § 65894 that are used primarily to supply energy to an on-site residential, agricultural or other permitted use(s) with a maximum rated capacity of 50 kilowatts, and which are regulated as accessory uses (see § 4.20.020). [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.390]
Wineries. (Industrial) Facilities for the production of wine from fruit or fruit juices through fermentation, that are subject a Type 02 license by the California Department of Alcoholic
Beverage Control. Wineries shall be entitled to all uses and activities provided under the Type 02
license. May also include ancillary distilling of wine to produce brandy or similar distilled spirit.
Such facilities may include related storage, blending and bottling activities, as well as administrative offices, marketing, tours, public tasting, wholesale and retail sales of wine. May include outdoor areas for picnics, gatherings and other activities incidental to winetasting.
Incidental sale of marketing products and accessories related to the winery's brand identity, wine
drinking, food pairing, local agriculture and local history is also permitted.
All uses within this classification shall fit within one of the following subcategories:
1. Small-Scale. Operations whose production does not exceed 10,000 cases per year, or volume equivalent (i.e. 90,000 liters). May include limited public gatherings and
promotional events that are provided in Section 4.10.395 as allowed by right.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 19 of 49
Exhibit A - 037

2. Medium-Scale. Includes any of the following:

a. Operations whose production exceeds 10,000 cases per year, or volume equivalent (i.e. 90,000 liters).
b. Operations that include "Medium Events," as provided in subsection 4.10.395(A)(2)(b).
Excludes such operations that include "Large Events" (see "Large-Scale).
3. Large-Scale. Operations that include "Large Events," as provided in subsection 4.10.395(A)(2)(c).
Wireless Telecommunications Facilities. (Infrastructure) Facilities supporting equipment and network components such as towers, utility poles, transmitters, base stations, and emergency power systems that are integral to providing wireless telecommunications services as further defined under state and federal laws and regulations. Does not include uses classified as Antennas - Commercial. [Criteria/Findings § 4.10.400].
1. Collocation/Modification - Minor. The placement or installation of wireless facilities, including antennas, and related equipment, on, or immediately adjacent to, a legally established and operating utility tower, utility structure of any kind, or existing wireless telecommunications collocation facility that meets at least one of the following:

a. Eligible Facilities Request (47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)). The collocation of new wireless transmission equipment or the removal or replacement of wireless transmission equipment that does not constitute a "substantial change" as defined in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(7).
b. The collocation of new wireless transmission equipment or the removal or replacement of wireless transmission equipment meets all requirements for nondiscretionary review under Government Code c0 65850.6(b), including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) The facility was previously approved pursuant to a discretionary permit issued on or after January 1, 2007, and either a negative declaration, mitigated negative declaration, or environmental impact report was prepared and adopted in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act.
(ii) The collocation or modification is consistent with the approved plans, mitigation requirements, and conditions imposed on the existing facility.
(ii) The proposed collocation or modification complies with all County requirements for wireless telecommunications collocation facilities, and all applicable building codes and other structural and safety codes in Title C of this Code.
2. Colocation/Modification - Major. Collocation, removal or replacement (including a complete facility replacement), or other modification that effectuates a substantial change in the physical dimensions or characteristics of an existing wireless telecommunications facility and does not qualify as a Collocation Facility - Minor.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 20 of 49
Exhibit A - 038

3. New facilities. Any new wireless transmission facility, tower, equipment, or base station, including relocation of an existing facility.

SECTION 3. Section 2.20.020 of Chapter 2.20, Article 2 of Appendix I, Zoning, of the
County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, is amended to read as follows:

§ 2.20.020 Use Regulations
The following tables, Tables 2.20-1 and 2.20-2, specify the allowable land uses for the rural base districts, listed by use classification as defined in Chapter 2.10. The regulations for each district are established by letter designations as follows:
"R" designates use classifications that are permitted by right. The term "by right" indicates no discretionary permit process by the Planning Office is required. See subsection
1.20.040(D) for applicability of other rules and processes.
"C designates use classifications that require an administrative planning clearance from the Planning Office. Planning clearances are for uses that require adherence to the Zoning Ordinance but for which no discretionary permit from the Planning Office is required.
"S" designates use classifications permitted with a special permit, subject to the provisions of
Chapter 5.60, Special Permit.
"A" designates use classifications permitted with architecture and site approval, subject to the
provisions of Chapter 5.40, Architecture and Site Approval.
"U" designates use classifications permitted with a use permit and architecture and site approval, subject to the provisions of Chapter 5.65, Use Permit, and Chapter 5.40, Architecture and Site Approval.
66 29 designates use classifications that are not allowed.
Supplemental regulations for the establishment and conduct of a use are referenced in the "Supplemental Regulations" column of the tables. Use classifications not listed in the tables are prohibited in the rural base districts.

Table 2.20-1 R Permitted by Right
RESIDENTIAL USES Planning Clearance
IN RURAL BASE DISTRICTS S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
AR HS RR Regulations

Residences: Single-Family R R R Note 1
Residential Accessory Structures & Uses R R R R § 4.20.020

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 21 of 49
Exhibit A 039

Table 2.20-1 Permitted by Right
RESIDENTIAL USES C Planning Clearance
IN RURAL BASE DISTRICTS S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
AR HS RR Regulations

Accessory Dwelling Units
Standard ADUs R R R R § 4.10.015
Movable tiny homes C C C C § 4.10.015
Junior ADUs R R R R § 4.10.015, Note 9
Agricultural Employee Housing
Small-Scale Permanent C S $ C § 4.10.040, Notes 2, 3
(AR), 10, 11
Large-Scale Permanent S S S S §§ 4.10.040, 3.80.050,
Note 2
Seasonal S S S S § 4.10.040
Community Care
Limited R R R R § 4.10.090, Note 4
Expanded U U § 4.10.090, Note 5
Domestic Animals
Dogs & Cats R R R Note 6
Other (see Ag: Livestock, Table
2.20-2)
Home Occupations
General R R R R § 4.10.180
Expanded S S S S § 4.10.180, Note
Residential-Communal Institutional U U § 4.10.300, Note 8
Temporary Residences during House
Construction R RR § 4.10.380
Temporary Agricultural Residence C C § 4.10.385, Notes 11, 12

NOTES:
Single-family dwellings, including certain additions, may be subject to the building site approval provisions of § C12-300 et seq. of the Ordinance Code.
2. Agricultural employce housing may, on limited basis, be used to accommodate overnight tourist stays as part of a winery (see § 4.10.395 for criteria and permitting requirements) or be used for emergency shelter

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 22 of 49 Exhibit A - 040

in the Public Services and Supportive Housing Combining District (see § 3.80.050 for criteria and
permitting requirements).
3. On lots 10 acres or larger in AR districts, a second one-family dwelling for agricultural employee housing is allowed by right. Such agricultural employee housing unit shall not be subject to the supplemental use regulations of § 4.10.040.

4. Facilities qualifying as "Large-Family Day-Care Homes," serving between 7 and 14 children, are subject to an administrative permit, per the provisions of Division B24 of the Ordinance Code.
5. Not a permitted use in areas with the "Agriculture-Large Scale" land use plan designation of the general
plan.

6. Not to exceed two (2) dogs and five (5) cats over four months of age on parcels less than five acres, Or three (3) dogs and five (5) cats over four months of age on parcels five acres or more, unless the required permit is secured pursuant to Division B31 of the Ordinance Code.
Expanded home occupations permitted on lots one-acre or larger. or For additional applicable criteria, see
§ 4.10.180.

8. In rural districts, the floor area of Residential - Communal Institutional uses shall be limited to 10,000 square feet or less.
9. Owner-occupancy of one unit is required in any single-family residence that contains a junior accessory dwelling unit. The owner may reside in either the single-family residence or the junior accessory dwelling unit. Owner-occupancy shall not be required if the owner is a govemmental agency, land trust, or housing
organization.
10. There shall be a cumulative cap of 100 new dwelling units or 120,000 square feet, whichever occurs first,
of small-scale permanent agricultural employee housing developed after May 1, 2020 in the Exclusive Agriculture and Rural Residential Zoning Districts combined.
11. Building site approval per Ordinance Code § C12-300 et seq. is not required for small-scale permanent
agricultural employee housing or temporary agricultural residence. Compliance with all other applicable federal, state, and County laws, regulations, and ordinances is required.
12. There shall be a cumulative cap of 50 temporary agricultural residences installed after May 1, 2020 in all zoning districts combined. When one such unit has been removed from property, it shall no longer count toward the cumulative cap.
Table 2.20-2 Permitted by Right
NON-RESIDENTIAL USES Planning Clearance
IN RURAL BASE DISTRICTS S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
AR HS RR Regulations

Agriculture
General R R R
Livestock R R Note 1 (HS)
Agricultural Accessory Structures/ Uses § 4.20.020
Agricultural Equipment Sales/ Services

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 23 of 49
Exhibit A - 041

Table 2.20-2 R Permitted by Right
NON-RESIDENTIAL USES C Planning Clearance
IN RURAL BASE DISTRICTS S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
AR HS RR Regulations

Agricultural Processing
Small Scale R R R R § 4.10.030
Medium Scale A § 4.10.030
Large Scale § 4.10.030
Agricultural Research
Agricultural Sales
Limited R R R R § 4.40.110 (Signs)
Farmers' Markets
Agriculturally Related Entertainment &
Commercial Uses § 4.10.050

Aircraft Landing Strips-Private Note 2
Antennas -Commercial
Minor A

Major U U

Bed & Breakfast Inns U U § 4.10.060, Note 3
Butcheries U

Camps & Retreats U U U § 4.10.070, Note 4
Cemeteries U U U U § 4.10.080, Note 4
Churches [See "Religious Institutions")
Clubs-Private & Nonprofit U § 2.20.090
Community Care
Limited R R R R § 4.10.090, Note 6
Expanded U U U § 4.10.090, Note 4
Dairies U U § 4.10.110
Entertainment-Seasonal Outdoor U § 4.10.120
Emergency Shelters
Small-Scale R § 4.10.115
Large-Scale § 4.10.115, Note 20
Feed Lots U § 4.10.130

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 24 of 49
Exhibit A - 042

Table 2.20-2 Permitted by Right
NON-RESIDENTIAL USES Planning Clearance
IN RURAL BASE DISTRICTS S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
AR HS RR Regulations

Golf Courses & Country Clubs U - U U § 4.10.140, Note 4
Golf Driving Ranges U - U § 4.10.150, Note 4
Helipads U § 4.10.160
Historic Structures- Use Conversion A A A § 4.10.170
Hospitals & Clinics U U U U 2.20.090 (AR, HS, RR
Districts), § 4.10.190 (A
Districts), Note 4
Hunting & Fishing Preserves Note
Industrial Hemp Note 21
Cultivation C § 4.10.195
Agricultural Research § 4.10.195
Agricultural Processing
Small-Scale C 4.10.030, § 4.10.195
Medium-Scale 4.10.030, § 4.10.195
Large-Scale § 4.10.030, § 4.10.195
Informational Displays
Small R

Large U

Kennels-Commercial U U § 4.10.200
Laboratories and Testing Services
(Limited)
Livestock Auction Yards U U § 4.10.210
Manufacturing : Small Scale Rural A U § 2.20.090
Museums U U U U Note 8
Mushroom Farms U U - U § 4.10.220
Nonprofit Institutions U U U U § 2.20.090 (AR, HS, RR
Districts), § 4.10.230 (A
Districts), Notes 4 & 19

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 25 of 49
Exhibit A - 043

Table 2.20-2 R Permitted by Right
NON-RESIDENTIAL USES C Planning Clearance
IN RURAL BASE DISTRICTS S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A AR HS RR Regulations

Nurseries
Retail U U U U Note 9
Wholesale R R R U Note 9
Offices (Limited) Note 10
Oil & Gas Extraction
Poultry and Egg Farms-Commercial U U § 4.10.240
Radio-Controlled Model Aircraft U § 4.10.250
Facilities
Reception Facilities U U U § 4.10.260
Recreational Playgrounds & Sports U U U U
Fields § 4.10.270 (A Zoning
District)
Recycling Facilities
Collection Facilities - Consumer R R R R 18 4.10.285
Recycling
Recycling/ Processing Facilities -
Consumer Waste
Concrete, Asphalt & Soil Recycling U U U U Note 11
Composting & Wood Recycling U U U U

Hazardous Materials
Religious Institutions U U U § 2.20.090 (AR, HS, RR
Districts), § 4.10.290 (A
Districts), Notes 4 & 19
Restaurants & Bars
Limited-Service Eating Places U U Note 12
Full-Service Bating Places Note 12
Drinking Places U Note 12
Retail Sales & Services: Local-Serving U U § 4.10.310
Rodeos and Equestrian Event Facilities U § 4.10.320

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 26 of 49
Exhibit A - 044

Table 2.20-2 Permitted by Right
NON-RESIDENTIAL USES C Planning Clearance
IN RURAL BASE DISTRICTS S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A AR HS RR Regulations

Schools U U U U § 2.20.090 (AR, HS, RR
Districts), § 4.10.330 (A
Districts), Note 4
Solar Energy Conversion Systems -
Commercial
Minor
Major A. U U A § 4.10.345, Notes 4 & 13
U U U § 4.10.345, Notes 4 & 13
Sport Shooting U U § 4.10.350
Stables -Commercial U U U U § 4.10.360
Surface Mining U U U U § 4.10.370
Swim & Tennis Clubs U U

Timber Harvest-Commercial U U Note 14
Truck Sales & Services: Storage U Note 15
(Limited)
Underground Mining U U U U

Utilities and Public Facilities Note 16
Minor A A A

Major U

Veterinary Clinics & Hospitals U U U U Note 17
Well-Drilling Operations A

Wind Energy Conversion Systems - U U U U
Commercial § 4.10.390

Wineries
Small-Scale R R R R § 4.10.395, § 4.40.110
(Signs)
Medium-Scale S S S S § 4.10.395, § 4.40.110
Large-Scale U U U U § 4.10.395, § 4.40.110

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 27 of 49
Exhibit A 045

Table 2.20-2 R Permitted by Right
NON-RESIDENTIAL USES C Planning Clearance
IN RURAL BASE DISTRICTS S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Pennitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A AR HS RR Regulations

Wireless Telecommunication Facilities Note 5
Collocation/Modification - Minor R R R R
Collocation/Modification -- Major A A A A § 4.10.400
New Facilities A § 4.10.400

NOTES:

1. Livestock breeding, raising and keeping is limited in HS districts as follows: Not more than three (3) large animals or SiX (6) medium animals per acre as a matter of right, or a proportional combination totaling three (3) animal units where each large animal constitutes one (1) animal unit, and each medium animal constitutes 0.5 animal unit. Special pern t required for numbers of large and medium animals exceeding these limits. There are no specified numerical limits for small animals
2. Landing strip, including approach and departure zones, shall be located a safe distance from residential development to prevent significant hazard.

3. Bed and brcakfast inns ancillary to on-site wineries, agricultural sales operations or other agriculturally related uses shall be subject to a special permit, in lieu of a use permit, provided they are situated within the primary residence on the property. Bed and breakfast inns are prohibited within the Los Gatos Hillside Specific Plan area, except as provided under the classification Historic Structures-Use Conversion,
4. Not a permitted use in areas with the "Agriculture-Large Scale" land use plan designation of the general plan.
Wireless telecommunications facilitics ar exempt from the development standards listed in Table 2.20-3.
Facilities qualifying as "Large-Family Day-Care Homes," serving between 7 and 14 children, are subject to an administrative permit, per the provisions of Division B24 of the County Ordinance Code.
The minimum lot size for hunting preserves shall be one hundred sixty (160) acres.
8. Museums in rural districts shall be limited in scale and must relate to the locally significant cultural, historical or social themes of the rural area.

9. The size of buildings for on-site sales and ancillary office associated with nurseries shall be kept to a minimum.

10, Offices ancillary to a permitted agricultural activity in A districts that contain no more than 2,400 square feet of floor area are allowed as a matter of right. Offices larger than 2,400 square fect are subject to a use permit.

11. Concrete, asphalt and soil recycling within rural districts is a permitted use only in association with an existing quarry operation in any rural base zoning district.
12. Restaurants and bars in rural districts shall be limited in scale, with a maximum publically accessible floor area of 1,200 square feet (measured from outer surfaces of enclosing walls, includes bathrooms).

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 28 of 49 Exhibit A - 046

13. Not a permitted use in areas in with the -di (Santa Clara Valley Viewshed) or -d2 (Milpitas Hillsides) Design Review combining zoning districts.
14. Timber harvest of commercial tree species as defined by the County Tree Preservation and Removal Ordinance, Division C16 of the County Ordinance Code, including but not limited to Redwood and
Douglas Fir, may be subject to the regulatory and permitting authority of the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CDF). No County permit shall be required if CDF bas approved a Timber Harvest Plan or Non-Industrial Timber Management Plan for the activity.
15. Truck storage uses in rural districts shall be limited to agriculture-related tractors, trucks, trailers, and
similar equipment.
16. Utility structures and facilities may be exempt from local zoning regulations if they are established by a government agency. There may also be or federal or state laws that provide exemptions for certain types of
utilities.

17. The minimum lot size for veterinary clinics and hospitals shall be two and one-half (2.50) acres.
18. Wireless telecommunications facilities ar exempt from the development standards listed in Table 2.20-3.
19. Established Religious Institutions and Nonprofit Institutions may include Emergency Shelters: Small-Scale
as an ancillary use by right.
20. Emergency Shelters are a permitted use only within the -sm San Martin Use Permit Areas Combining District, as depicted in Chapter 3.90 of the Zoning Ordinance.
21. Industrial Hemp uses may be established, consistent with the Supplemental Use Regulations in Section 4.10.195, the later date of (1) 30 days from final adoption by the Board of Supervisors of Ordinance No. NS-1200.373 or (2) effective date of the state plan for California approved by the United States Department of Agriculture pursuant to Section 297B of the Federal Agricultural Market Act of 1946 (added by Section 10113 of the federal Agricultural Improvement Act of 2018 (Public Law 115-334)). Industrial Hemp: Cultivation and/or Industrial Hemp: Agricultural Processing (small scale) activities undertaken on multiple parcels by one operator may be authorized with a single application for Planning
Clearance.

SECTION 4. Section 2.50.020 of Chapter 2.50, Article 2 of Appendix I, Zoning, of the County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, is amended to read as follows:
§ 2.50.020 Use Regulations
The following table, Table 2.50-1, specifies the allowable land uses for the special purpose base districts, listed by use classification as defined in Chapter 2.10. The regulations for each district
are established by letter designations as follows:
"R" designates use classifications that are permitted by right. The term "by right" indicates
no discretionary permit process by the Planning Office is required. See subsection
1.20.040(D) for applicability of other rules and processes.
4C33 designates use classifications that require an administrative planning clearance from the Planning Office. Planning clearances are for uses that require adherence to the Zoning Ordinance but for which no discretionary permit from the Planning Office is required.
"S" designates use classifications permitted with a special permit, subject to the provisions of
Chapter 5.60, Special Permit.
"A" designates use classifications permitted with architccture and site approval, subject to the provisions of Chapter 5.40, Architecture and Site Approval.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 29 of 49
Exhibit A - 047

"U% designates use classifications permitted with a use permit, and architecture and site approval, subject to the provisions of Chapter 5.65, Use Permit, and Chapter 5.40, Architecture and Site Approval.
14 99 designates use classifications that are not allowed.
Supplemental regulations for the establishment and conduct of use are referenced in the
"Supplemental Regulations" column the table. Use classifications not listed in the table are
prohibited in the special purpose base districts.

Table 2.50-1 Permitted by Right
USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE BASE DISTRICTS Planning Clearance
S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A1 RS OS/F SCA Regulations

Accessory Dwelling Units
Standard ADUs •R § 4.10.015
Movable tiny homes § 4.10.015
Junior ADUs § 4.10.015, Note 19
Adult Uses § 4.10.020
Agriculture Note 1 (OS/F and SCA)
Agricultural Accessory Structures & R § 4.20.020, Note 2
Uses (OS/F)
Agricultural Employee Housing
Small-Scale Permanent § 4.10.040, Notes 16,
20
Large-Scale Permanent U §§ 4.10.040, 3.80.050,
Notes 16, 20
Agricultural Equipment Sales &
Services
Agricultural Processing
Small Scale R A § 4.10.030; Notes 2, 3
(OS/F)
Medium Scale § 4.10.030
Large Scale § 4.10.030
Agricultural Research

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 30 of 49 Exhibit A - 048

Permitted by Right Table 2.50-1
USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE BASE DISTRICTS C Planning Clearance
S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A1 RS OS/F SCA Regulatious

Agricultural Sales
R A - § 4.40.110 (Signs), Limited
Notes 2, 3 (OS/F)
Farmers' Markets
Agriculturally Related Entertainment U § 4.10.050
& Commercial Uses
Antennas-Commercial
Minor
Major
Auction Houses
Automotive Sales & Services
Limited Repair
General Repair
Sales & Rentals D. 9
Service Stations
Storage
Washing
Banks
Bed & Breakfast Inns
Billboards

Broadcasting
Business Services
Butcheries
Camps & Retreats
Caretaker's Residences
Cemeteries 233333 93 § 4.10.060

Note 4 (OS/F)

Churches (See "Religious
Institutions")
Clubs-Private & Nonprofit U

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
R.V Parks Page 31 of 49
Exhibit A 049

Table 2.50-1 Permitted by Right
USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE BASE DISTRICTS Planning Clearance
S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A1 RS OS/F SCA Regulations

Colleges & Vocational Schools U
Community Care
Limited R § 4.10.090, Note 5
Expanded
Contractors' Facilities
Dairies 3p § 4.10.090

Domestic Animals
Emergency Shelters
R 4.10.115 Small-Scale
Large-Scale
Feed Lots 2b| § 4.10.115
E Note (OS/F & SCA) Field Research
Food Preparation & Catering
Services
Funeral & Cremation Services
Golf Courses & Country Clubs
Golf Driving Ranges spbe § 4.10.140(B)
§ 4.10.150(B)
Health & Fitness Clubs
§ 4.10.160 Helipads
Historic Structure - Use Conversion § 4.10.170
Home Occupations
General R § 4.10.180
§ 4.10.180 Expanded
Hospitals & Clinics
Hotels & Motels ce‹ § 4.10.200 Kennels
Laboratories & Testing Services
Laundries-Commercial
Livestock Auction Yards § 4.10.210

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 32 of 49
Exhibit A - 050

R Permitted by Right Table 2.50-1
USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE BASE DISTRICTS C Planning Clearance
S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A1 RS OS/F SCA Regulations

Machinery & Equipment Services
Limited U
General
Maintenance & Repair Services
Manufactured-Home Sales & Rentals
Manufacturing
Limited
General
Intensive
Massage Establishments
Museums

Mushroom Farms 399929 -

Note 8

§ 4.10.220
Nonprofit Institutions U Notes 18
Nurseries
Retail
Wholesale

Offices

Oil and Gas Extraction
Parking Services & Facilities
Personal Services
Petroleum Products Distribution
$ 4.10.240 Poultry & Egg Farms
Radio-Controlled Model Aircraft U . § 4.10.250
Facilities

Reception Facilities
Recreation-Commercial 2e § 4.10.260

Recreational Playgrounds & Sports U
Fields

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 33 of 49
Exhibit A - 051

Table 2.50-1 Permitted by Right
USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE BASE DISTRICTS C Planning Clearance
S Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
A ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A1 RS OS/F SCA Regulations

Recreational Vehicle Parks U
(Residential and Recreational) § 4.10.280, Note 21

Recycling Facilities
Collection Facilities-Consumer R § 4.10.285
Recycling
Recycling/ Processing Facilities-
Consumer Waste
Concrete, Asphalt, & Soil
Recycling
Composting & Wood Recycling Notes 2, 9 (OS/F), 19
Hazardous Materials
Religious Institutions Notes 18
Residential
Single-Family R Note 10
Two-F'amily
Multi-Family
Residential Accessory Structures & § 4.20.020
Uses
Residential-Communal Institutional U

Restaurants & Bars

Limited-Service Eating Places
Full-Service Eating Places
Drinking Places
Retail Sales & Services
General U U Note 6 (RS)
Outdoor Sales & Storage
Rodeos & Equestrian Events
Rooming Houses, Fratermities &
Sororities
Schools

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 34 of 49 Exhibit A - 052

Table 2.50-1 Permitted by Right
USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE BASE DISTRICTS Planning Clearance
Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING Supplemental
A1 RS OS/F SCA Regulations

Solar Energy Conversion Systems-
Commercial
Minor A § 4.10.345
Major
Sport Shooting § 4.10.350
Stables-Commercial
Stanford -Specialized Facilities & Iccc § 4.10.345

§ 4.10.360
A Note 11 (OS/F)
Installations
Studios-Arts & Crafts
Surface Mining § 4.10.370
Swim & Tennis Clubs
Taxidermy
Temporary Residences / Construction 3225 x P -

-

8 4.10.380

Theaters

Timber Harvest Operations - U
Commercial
Truck & Railroad Terminals U

Truck Sales & Services
Repair U
Sales u -

Storage
Underground Mining
Utilities and Public Facilities Note 14
Minor A Notes 12, 13 (OS/F &
SCA)
Major U A Notes 12, 13 (OS/F &
SCA)
Veterinary Clinics & Hospitals

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 35 of 49
Exhibit A - 053

Table 2.50-1
USES IN SPECIAL PURPOSE BASE DISTRICTS Permitted by Right
C Planning Clearance
S
A Special Permit (Ch 5.60)
ASA (Ch 5.40)
U Use Permit/ ASA (Ch 5.65, 5.40)
Not Permitted

USE CLASSIFICATIONS ZONING

A1 RS Supplemental
OS/F SCA Regulations

Warehousing & Storage
Indoor
Outdoor
Well-Drilling Operations
Wholesaling & Distribution C C c
Wind Energy Conversion Systems-
Commercial U § 4.10.390

Wineries
Small-Scale - § 4.10.395, § 4.40.110

Medium-Scale (Signs)

Large-Scale § 4.10.395, § 4.40.110

Wireless Telecommunication § 4.10.395, § 4.40.110

Facilities
Co-location

Minor § 4.10.400, Note 15

Major § 4.10.400
§ 4.10.400

NOTES:
Within the OS/F district, tree farm operations that grow trees in containers or in the ground are consistent with the *Agriculture" use classification. Within the SCA district, agricultural uses shall be limited to non- riparian areas and areas outside of conservation easements and California tiger salamander (CTS) reserve areas managed pursuant to the Stanford Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP), except for grazing for vegetation management as specifically provided in the Stanford HCP. Within the riparian areas and
conservation easement/CTS reserve areas of the SCA district, use of pesticides and herbicides shall be prohibited; however, this does not prohibit weed abatement activities, non-native wildlife or plant abatement activities (including the use of pesticides, biocides, and herbicides or other agricultural chemicals) conducted in accordance with the Stanford HCP or Stanford Special Conservation Areas Plan (SCAP).

2. Within the OS/F district, structures ancillary to any allowed use or activity are permitted subject to the requirements of ASA (Chapter 5.40 and subsection 2.50.040(B)), Within the SCA district, no new permanent development in the form of buildings or structures is allowed, except for the construction, modification, and maintenance of improvements to support conservation efforts; structures or

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 36 of 49
Exhibit A - 054

improvements that are necessary for safety reasons; small markers or other identifiers indicating the presence of sensitive resources (such as Native American remains); new signs, bridges, utilities, erosion control improvements; and fences; provided that they are constructed in accordance with the terms of the
Stanford HCP and SCAP. This provision shall not prohibit maintenance of existing structures or improvements or prohibit the replacement of structures or improvement with new structures or improvements that serve the same purpose as the existing structures or improvements, provided any new or modified structures or improvements located within the HCP conservation easement/CTS reserve areas
are approximately the same size as the existing structures or improvements.
3. Within the OS/F district, agricultural processing is limited to low intensity processing and agricuitural sales activities that would not significantly impact local transportation patterns. For example, activities such as packaging products for off-site shipping and allowing limited on-site purchase of agricultural commodities are consistent with allowable uses for this district. Activities such as a canning operation, or establishing a commercial outlet for sale of multiple agricultural commodities, would exceed the intensity
allowed in this district. Prior to establishment of any use or activity, the Planning Office must determine that such use or activity is of low intensity and consistent with the General Use Permit requirements for the OS/F district.
Within the OS/F district, caretaker's residences, as defined in § 2.10.030, are allowed as follows: A cumulative total of five caretaker's residences is allowed to the extent they are consistent with all provisions of the Stanford General Use Permit and the zoning ordinance. This cumulative total includes all legal existing residential structures within the OS/F district, including any that may be legal nonconforming uses. Any existing legal nonconforming caretaker's residences that existed on December 12, 2000 and have not been subsequently abandoned may continue to be utilized as caretaker residences. Stanford University bears the burden of establishing that any existing structure and use is legal or legal nonconforming. Consistent with all other provisions of the zoning ordinance, any legal structure that has
been converted to a caretaker's residence may be relocated, replaced, or modified, so long as there is no cumulative increase in the overall square footage of all residential structures. Caretaker's residences are
subject to ASA (Chapter 5.40 and subsection 2.50.040 (B)). Cumulative building area (square footage and building footprint) for the five caretaker's residences shall not exceed the total square footage of documented building area for all legal or legal nonconforming residential structures that existed in the OS/F district on December 12, 2000.

5, Facilities qualifying as "Large-Family Day-Care Homes," serving between 7 and 14 children, are subject to an administrative permit, per the provisions of Division B24 of the County Ordinance Code.

6 In Roadside Services (RS) districts, general retail sales uses must be limited in scale and ancillary to a permitted use that is primarily oriented toward serving the needs of the motoring public, consistent with
the general plan,

7. The existing Stanford University Golf Course may be modified or reconfigured within its boundaries as they existed on December 12, 2000, but the Golf Course footprint may not be expanded. Modification or replacement of the golf course clubhouse or ancillary support facilities is permitted if consistent with all applicable provisions of the' Community Plan, Gencral Use Permit, and the zoning ordinance.

8. Massage establishments shall comply with the provisions of Division B22 of the County Ordinance Code.

9. Within the OS/F district, composting facilities are limited to those servicing Stanford University purposes, and no other communities, jurisdictions or uses (e.g., Stanford Shopping Center).
10. Single-family dwellings, including certain additions, may be subject to the building site approval provisions of Division C12-300-399 of the County Ordinance Code. In Roadside Services districts, single-family residential use is permitted only if incidental to and necessary to support a permitted non- residential use, as defined by the land use approval and conditions of that primary non-residential use.
11. Within the OS/F district, Stanford specialized facilities and instaliations are limited to those structures or
facilities that require a remote setting, including but not limited to facilities for astronomical or atmospheric research. Only those structures or facilities that require isolation from sources of interference (such as noise, vibration, electromagnetic fields, or similar impediments) are allowed.

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 37 of 49
Exhibit A - 055

12. Within the OS/F and the SCA districts, existing utilities may be replaced if there is no increase in size or scale of aboveground structures. Above-ground disturbance resulting from the maintenance or replacement of such structures shall be restored to pre-disturbance condition. Within the SCA district, existing utilities may be replaced with utilities that serve the same purpose as the existing structures or improvements (provided the new or modified structures or improvements located within the HCP conservation easement/ CTS reserve areas are approximately the same size as the existing structures or improvements) and utilities are constructed in accordance with the terms of the Stanford HCP or SCAP.
13. Within the OS/F and the SCA districts, new utilities may be constructed that serve either Stanford or other lands if such facilities reasonably minimize degradation to the natural environment and maintain the predominantly natural appearance and habitat values of the setting. In addition, within the SCA district, new utilities may be constructed consistent with the purposes of the SCA district, provided they are in accordance with the terms of the Stanford HCP where covered by the Stanford HCP.
14. Utility structures and facilities may be exempt from local zoning regulations if they are established by a government agency. There may also be federal or state laws that provide exemptions for certain types of utilities.
15. Co-location of wireless telecommunication facilities may be eligible for an ASA administrative review and approval (§ 5.40.050), where consistent with the provisions of this ordinance. Where the proposed co-location meets the criteria in Government Code § 65850.6(b) relating to previously approved facilities permitted by a means of a discretionary permit issued on or after January 1, 2007, and either a negative declaration, mitigated negative declaration, or environmental impact report was prepared and adopted, the co-location shall be reviewed for consistency with the approved plans, mitigation requirements, and conditions imposed on the existing facility, and if found consistent, will be subject only to a building permit or other applicable permits required by Title C of the County Ordinance Code.
16. Agricultural employee housing may, on a limited basis, be used to accommodate overnight tourist stays as part of a winery (see § 4.10.395 for criteria and permitting requirements) or be used for emergency shelter in the Public Services and Supportive Housing Combining District (see § 3.80.050 for criteria and permitting requirements).
17. Bed and breakfast inns ancillary to on-site wineries, agricultural sales operations or other agriculturally related uses shall be subject to a special permit, in lieu of a use permit, provided they are situated within the primary residence on the property,
18. Established Religious Institutions and Nonprofit Institutions may inchude Emergency Shelters: Small-Scale as an ancillary use by right.
19. Owner-occupancy of one unit is required in any single-family residence that contains a junior accessory dwelling unit. The owner may reside in either the single-family residence or the junior accessory dwelling unit. Owner-occupancy shall not be required if the owner is a governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization.
20. Small-scale permanent agricultural e mployee housing is allowed with a planning clearance ("C") instead of a special permit ("S") in the A1 zone where the General Plan designation is Agriculture or Rural Residential.
21. No Architecture and Site Approval is required for Recreational Vehicle Parks.

LL

IL

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 38 of 49 Exhibit A - 056

SECTION 5. Section 4.10.280 of Chapter 4.10, Article 4, of Appendix 1, Zoning, of the
County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, is amended to read as follows:
§ 4.10.280 Recreational Vehicle Parks
This section refers to uses classified as Recreational Vehicle Parks as described in § 2.10.030 and § 2.10.040. Such uses shall be subject to all of the following provisions:
A. General. Recreational Vehicle Parks (RV Parks) are required to obtain a permit from the California Department of Housing and Community Development prior to opening. Nothing in this section shall be construed to abrogate or conflict with any state laws or
regulations relevant to RV Parks.
B. RV Park Boundary The site plan for a proposed RV Park shall clearly identify the RV Park boundary, which shall at minimum exclude setback areas required by the applicable base zoning district and any required perimeter landscaping.
C. Compliance with State and Local Laws. RV Parks shall comply with all applicable
state laws and regulations; County ordinances, guidelines, and standards; and other local ordinances and regulations. If application of any County ordinance, guideline, or standard would conflict with or be preempted by state law, state law shall govern, but only to the extent of the specific issues of conflict.
D. Criteria. An RV park (including approved ancillary uses under the same ownership or
management), shall comply with all of the following requirements before it may be
approved:
1. Duration of Stays. No recreational vehicle shall stay at an RV Park for more than 30 consecutive days or for more than 30 total days in any 90-day period. An RV Park owner may apply for an exemption from this stay limitation from the County pursuant to Health & Safety Code Section 18865.2. Exemption requests submitted after a use permit is granted shall be processed as a use permit modification. Impacts to be considered in determining whether to grant an exemption shall include, but are not limited to, whether there will be any adverse impact on local school districts due to the additional enrollment of residents from
the RV Park.
2. General Health and Safety. The RV Park shall comply with all applicable state
and local health and safety requirements. This may include facilities such as public restrooms, showers, and laundry facilities. All recreational vehicle spaces shall be provided with individual connections to an adequate wastewater disposal system, potable water, electrical hookups, and individual closed trash containers
or a common closed trash container as approved by the Department of Environmental Health. The RV Park shall not be located in a 100-year floodplain
unless the approved plans show appropriate mitigation in compliance with Ordinance Code Division C12, Chapter VII, Article 5. - Provisions For Flood
Hazard Reduction.
3. Fire Safety. The RV Park shall mect all applicable fire safety laws, regulations, and ordinances. All areas within the RV Park shall be provided with adequate

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 39 of 49
Exhibit A - 057

emergency vehicle access and fire protection facilities, including water supply through hydrants or other methods in compliance with state regulations. Driveways shall be named with signs placed at intersections, and individual lots shall be identified as required by state regulations.
4. Access, Circulation and Parking. The RV Park shall provide adequate access, circulation, and on-site parking as required by all applicable laws, regulations and ordinances, and shall provide a sufficient number of on-site parking spaces to prevent any off-site parking by RV Park users, employees, or visitors.
5. School District Review. This subsection applies if an RV Park owner requests an exemption from the short-term stay requirement in subsection (D)(1) herein. The County decision-making body shall consider comments that are submitted to the County by the affected school district(s) regarding any adverse impact on the district(s) due to the additional enrollment of residents from the RV Park and any district(s) recommendations for appropriate conditions to mitigate or avoid those impacts.
6. Unoccupied RV Storage. The RV Park may set aside specific designated areas for the storage of unoccupied recreational vehicles. These areas shall be shown on the
approved site plan and shall be designed to avoid any impacts to surface or ground- water resources.
7. Screening and Signage. The RV Park shall be designed to provide adequate perimeter landscaping and fencing to minimize off-site visibility, potential noise, lighting and glare, and impacts from activities at the RV Park that could be a nuisance to neighboring properties. On-site signs advertising the RV Park shall be designed in conformance with the provisions of Chapter 4.40, Signs.
8. Neighborhood Compatibility. Off-site appearance of the RV Park shall not be detrimental to the character of the surrounding neighborhood or zoning district, as determined by substantial conformance with the adopted "Guidelines for Architecture and Site Approval" and any other applicable guidelines adopted by the County.
9. Manager/Caretaker Residences. A maximum of one (1) single-family residence and one (1) accessory dwelling unit (ADU) for an on-site manager and/or caretaker shall be allowed and shall be shown on the site plan and approved as part of the use permit.
10. Noise. Where adjoining uses, such as highways or railroads, will generate a noise level of 60 Ldn or higher at any recreational vehicle space in the RV Park, noise attenuation shall be provided to achieve a noise level of 55 Ldn or lower consistent with the County Noise Ordinance, Section B11-160 et seq. A perimeter berm and/or masonry wall along with screening vegetation is the preferred method of noise reduction. A noise reduction and attenuation plan shall be prepared by a noise evaluation expert acceptable to the County.

LL

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 40 of 49 Exhibit A - 058

SECTION 6. Section 4.30.030 of Chapter 4.30, Article 4 of Appendix I, Zoning, of the County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, is amended to read as follows:
§ 4.30.030 Parking Spaces Required-Residential Uses
Table 4.30-1 sets forth the number of parking spaces required for each residential use.
Table 4.30-1
Parking Spaces Required
RESIDENTIAL USES

USE CLASSIFICATIONS SPACES REQUIRED

Residences

Single-Family 2 per unit (1 shall be covered)
Two-Family 2 per unit (1 per unit shall be covered)
Multi-Family 1.5 per unit

Accessory dwelling unit per unit [Section 4.10.015(I)]
Standard (attached or detached) l per unit [Section 4.10.015(I)]
Movable tiny home None
Junior ADU None

Agricultural Employee Housing (all) per unit or each 1,200 square feet of
group living quarters, whichever is
greater
Caretaker's Residences 2 per residence
Home Occupations
General None

Expanded in addition to total residential
requirement
Recreational Vehicle Parks 1.5 per recreational vehicle space, plus
per employee

Residential-Communal Institutional for each guest room, plus 1 for each employee (may be reduced if
occupants normally do not have
cars)
Rooming Houses, Fraternities & Sororities for each guest room, plus 1 for each
employee

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 41 of 49
Exhibit A 059

SECTION 7. Section 4.30.040 of Chapter 4.30, Article 4 of Appendix I, Zoning, of the County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, is amended to read as follows:
§ 4.30.040 Parking Spaces Required -Nonresidential Uses
Table 4.30-2 sets forth the number of parking spaces needed for each nonresidential use.
A. Requirement Based on Square Footage. When a number of spaces per square feet is required, that measurement shall be of the gross floor area of each building devoted to such use less any interior space used for parking, loading, heating and air-conditioning equipment, stairs and elevators, mechanical and electrical equipment, and communications equipment, unless otherwise specified.
B. Requirement Based on Employees. When a number of spaces "per employee" is required, that number shall be based on the maximum number of employees working on the premises at any given time during a normal work schedule.
C. Company Vehicles. Parking spaces shall be provided for all vehicles used by the operators of the use and parked on the site during any portion of the normal operating hours. This requirement does not apply to vehicles used by employees to get to and from the premises. The spaces for company vehicles are in addition to those required by Table 4.30-2.

D. Additional Spaces. The approval authority shall have the authority to require additional spaces over and above the requirements in Table 4.30-2 when either: (a) the nature of a specific use is demonstrably more parking-intensive than typical uses under that use classification; or (b) the roads adjacent to that use do not have the physical capacity to provide on-street parking. The requirement for additional parking shall be supported by a parking study prepared by a qualified parking or transportation expert. Conversely, a reduction in required spaces may be allowed per the provisions of § 4.30.100: Parking Exception.

Table 4.30-2
Parking Spaces Required
NONRESIDENTIAL USES

USE CLASSIFICATIONS SPACES REQUIRED

Adult Uses per 200 square feet
Agricultural Equipment Sales & Services per 500 square feet, plus 1 per
employec
Agricultural Processing (all) per 500 square feet, plus 1 per
employee
Agricultural Research per 350 square feet, plus 1 per
employee

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 42 of 49 Exhibit A - 060

Table 4.30-2
Parking Spaces Required
NONRESIDENTIAL USES

USE CLASSIFICATIONS SPACES REQUIRED

Agricultural Sales--Limited
5 per stand, plus 3 additional spaces
for operations that allow customers
access to the growing areas and
pick the product themselves.

Agriculturally Related Entertainment &
Commercial Uses As specified by use permit / ASA

Aircraft Landing Strips-Private As specified by use permit / ASA
Antennas-Commercial (all) if attended, plus 1 for service
vehicle

Auction Houses per 400 square feet

Automobile Sales & Services

Limited Repair 4 per vehicle work station, plus 1 per
employee
General Repair 4 per vehicle work station, plus 1 per
employee
Sales & Rentals per 500 square feet, plus 1 per
employee
Service Stations 3 per service bay, plus 1 per employee
Storage 2, plus 1 per employee
Washing 2 per 500 square feet, plus per
employee
Banks per 250 square feet
Bed & Breakfast Inns 2 (both shall be covered), plus 1 for each guest room, plus 1 for each
employee
Broadcasting per employee
Business Services per 250 square feet
Butcheries per 500 square feet
Camps and Retreats As specified by use permit/ ASA

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 43 of 49
Exhibit A - 061

wterteyshw-pa
Table 4.30-2
Parking Spaces Required
NONRESIDENTIAL USES

USE CLASSIFICATIONS SPACES REQUIRED

Cemeteries As specified by use permit/ ASA
Clubs - Private & Nonprofit & per 200 square feet
Colleges & Vocational Schools Colleges: 1 per staff, plus 1 per 3 1 students, plus 1 per 4 fixed seats in auditorium or gymnasium (or per 6 lineal feet of bench)
Vocational Schools: 1 per staff, plus
per 2 students
Community Care (all) Daycare: 1 per 1 staff, plus 1 per 15 1
children, plus passenger loading
area
24-hour Care: 1 per 6 1 beds, plus
per employee
Corporation Yards 2, plus 1 per employee
Dairies per employee
Entertainment -Seasonal Outdoor As specified by use permit/ ASA
Farmers' Markets per 300 square feet of indoor and
outdoor sales area
Feed Lots per employee
Food Preparation & Catering Services per 500 square feet, plus 1 per 1
employee
Funeral & Cremation Services per 4 seats used for services, plus
per employee
Golf Courses & County Clubs As specified by use permit/ ASA
Golf Driving Ranges As specified by use permit/ ASA
Health & Fitness Clubs per 400 square feet
Historic Structure-Use Conversion See requirements for new use(s)

Hospitals & Clinics Hospital (beds available for 24-hour
stay): 1 per 4 beds, plus per
employee
Clinics: 1 per 200 square feet
Hotels & Motels 1 per guest room, plus 1 per employee

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 44 of 49
Exhibit A - 062

Table 4.30-2
Parking Spaces Required
NONRESIDENTIAL USES

USE CLASSIFICATIONS SPACES REQUIRED

Hunting & Fishing Preserves per employee
Informational Displays
Small None

Large As specified by use permit/ASA
Kennels- Commercial 0.25 per animal (at design capacity),
plus 1 per employee
Laboratories & Testing Services per 500 square feet, plus per
employee
Laundries-Industrial per employce
Livestock Auction Yards As specified by use permit/ASA
Machinery & Bquipment Services
Limited per 500 square feet, plus one per
employee
General per 1,000 square feet, plus one per
employee
Maintenance & Repair Services 1 per 400 square feet
Manufactured-Home Sales & Rentals 2, plus 1 per employee
Manufacturing (all) per 500 square feet
Massage Establishments per 250 square feet
Museums As specified by use permit/ASA
Mushroom Farms As specified by use permit/ASA
Nonprofit Institutions per 250 square feet
Nurseries

Retail per 350 square feet, plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of outdoor display
space, plus per employee
Wholesale per 4,000 square feet including
outdoor display space, plus 1 per
employee
Offices per 250 square feet
Oil & Gas Extraction per employee

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 45 of 49
Exhibit A - 063

Table 4.30-2
Parking Spaces Required
NONRESIDENTIAL USES

USE CLASSIFICATIONS SPACES REQUIRED

Parking Services & Facilities per employee
Personal Services per 250 square feet
Petroleum Products Distribution per employee
Poultry & Egg Farms -Commercial per employee
Radio-Controlled Model Aircraft Facilities As specified by use permit/ASA
Reception Facilities per 2 people allowed under occupancy limit, plus 1 per employee
Recreation-Commercial As specified by use permit/ASA
Recreational Playgrounds & Sports Fields As specified by use permit/ASA
Recreational Vehicle Parks 1.5 per recreational vehicle space, plus 1 per employee
Recycling Facilities
Collection Facilities -Consumer Recycling per 500 square feet of collection
area, plus per employee
Consumer Waste per employee
Concrete, Asphalt & Soil Recycling per employee
Composting & Wood Recycling per employce
Hazardous Materials per employee
Religious Institutions 1 per 4 fixed seats (or 1 per 6 lineal
feet of bench), plus per cleric and
staff

Restaurants & Bars per 3 seats, plus 5 for take-out
service (if provided), plus 1 per
employee
Retail Sales & Services
Local-Serving per 200 square feet
General Small (carry-out) Items: 1 per 200 square feet
Large Items: per 500 square feet

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 46 of 49 Exhibit A - 064

Table 4.30-2
Parking Spaces Required
NONRESIDENTIAL USES

USE CLASSIFICATIONS SPACES REQUIRED

Outdoor Sales & Storage Same as "General," 1 plus 1 per 1,000
square feet of outdoor space open
to the public
Rodeos & Equestrian Events As specified by use permit/ASA
Schools Elementary and Junior High: 1 per staff, plus 1 per 4 fixed seats in auditorium or gymnasium (or 1 per 6 lineal feet of bench)
High: 1 per staff, plus 1 per 7 students, plus 1 per 4 fixed seats in
auditorium or gymnasium (or 1 per
6 lineal feet of bench)
Sport Shooting As specified by use permit/ASA
Stables-Commercial per 3 horses (at design capacity),
plus per employee
Studios-Arts & Crafts per 1,000 square feet
Surface Mining per employee
Swim & Tennis Clubs As specified by use permit/ASA
Taxidermy per 400 square feet
Theaters space per 3 seats, plus 1 per
employee
Timber Harvest Operations -Commercial per employee
Truck & Railroad Terminals per employee
Truck Sales & Services &

Repair 2 per vehicle work station, plus per
employee
Sales per 1,000 square feet, plus 1 per
employee
Storage per employee
Underground Mining per employee
Utilities

Minor per employee (manned facilities
only)

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 47 of 49
Exhibit A - 065

Table 4.30-2
Parking Spaces Required
NONRESIDENTIAL USES

USE CLASSIFICATIONS SPACES REQUIRED

Major
Veterinary Clinics & Hospitals As specified by use permit/ASA
per 500 square feet, plus per

Warehousing & Storage employee

Indoor per 2,000 square feet, plus 1 per 250

Outdoor sq ft of office area
per 2,000 square feet, plus 1 per 250

Well-Drilling Operations sq ft of office area

Wholesaling & Distribution per employee
per 2,000 square feet open to the

Wind Energy Conversion Systems- public, plus 1 per employee

Commercial per employee

Wineries

Small-Scale per 1,000 square feet of warehouse
area, plus 1 per 200 sq ft of tasting

Medium-Scale room

per 1,000 square feet of warehouse
area, plus 1 per 200 sq ft of tasting
room

One space per attendees of

Large-Scale receptions and special events.
per 1,000 square feet of warehouse
area, plus 1 per 200 sq ft of tasting
room

One space per 3 attendecs of
receptions and special events.

SS 2

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 48 of 49 Exhibit A - 066

SECTION 8. This ordinance shall not apply to any pending application for Recreational Vehicle Park that the County Department of Planning and Development has deemed complete, in accordance with Section 4.20.080 of the Zoning Ordinance, on or before the effective date of this ordinance, provided the application is not abandoned. Any such complete application shall comply with all provisions of the County General Plan and Ordinance
Code. including Appendix I, Zoning, applicable to Recreational Vehicle Parks that were in effect
immediately preceding the effective date of this ordinance.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara.
State of California. on MAY 2 5 2021 by the following vote:

CHAVEZ, ELLENBERG, LEE AYES: SIMITIAN, WASSERMAN
NOES: NONE
ABSENT: NONE
ABSTAIN: NONE
Mdi lehuer MIKE WASSERMAN. President

Signed and certified that a copy of this Board of Supervisors
document has been delivered by electronic
or other means to the President, Board of Supervisors.

ATTEST:

Mic DL MEGAN DO DE
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY:
Se LIZANNE REYNOLDS
Deputy County Counsel

Ordinance No. NS-1200.378
Amending Zoning Ordinance for
RV Parks Page 49 of 49
Exhibit A - 067

RESOLUTION No. BoS-2021-003
RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF
SANTA CLARA AMENDING THE SANTA CLARA COUNTY GENERAL
PLAN POLICIES RELATED TO RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
ABOLISHING THE 1994 RV PARK DEVELOPMENT DESIGN
GUIDELINES, AND FINDING THE VARIOUS ACTIONS RELATED TO RV
PARKS TO BE EXEMPT FROM CEQA
(File No. PLN20-005 and PLN17-11081)

WHEREAS, the Santa Clara County General Plan (1995-2010) (*General Plan"), which
was comprehensively revised and adopted in 1994, has been updated and amended over time to
incorporate desired policy changes, reflect changing conditions and needs, and satisfy state
requirements;

WHEREAS, among other things, the General Plan focuses on preserving the natural resources and rural character of unincorporated lands and directing urban development into the various cities' Urban Service Arcas to promote compact urban development and infill within city boundaries. thus preventing urban sprawl from encroaching into the unincorporated areas and
further impacting the remaining rural and open space resources;

WHEREAS. on October 18, 2018, the Housing, Land Use, Environment, and Transportation Committee (*HLUET*) of the Board of Supervisors (**Board") reccived the 2018 Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks Study and accompanying recommendations from the Adopted: 05/25/2021
Department of Planning and Development (*Department") to modify the County's General Plan
and Zoning Ordinance to limit areas in which new RV Parks could potentially be established to properties with the General Plan land use designation of Roadside Services *RS*);
WHEREAS, following HLUET's acceptance of the Department's recommendations, the Department prepared General Plan and Zoning Ordinance amendments to address changes in
state law governing the construction and operation of RV Parks under the Special Occupancy
Parks Act ("SOPA"*), Health & Safety Code § 18860 et seq., including limitations on the County's ability to enforce short-term stay requirements;
WHEREAS, the proposed General Plan amendments, which are in Exhibit A attached to this Resolution, would update the General Plan policies related to RV Parks, including limiting the areas in which new RV parks could potentially be established to properties with the General Plan land use designation of Roadside Services ("RS*);
WHEREAS, the Department also recommends that the Board abolish the 1994 RV Park
Development Design Guidelines because the relevant provisions of the Guidelines are addressed
in the proposed amendments to the Zoning Ordinance and SOPA regulations:
WHEREAS, the San Martin Planning Advisory Committee (SMPAC) considered the proposed General Plan and Zoning Ordinance amendments at its March 24, 2021 regular

Resolution Amending County General Plan and Taking Other Actions Related to
RV Parks Page I of 5

Exhibit A - 068 105453 MAY 2 5 2021

meeting, and voted to forward a favorable recommendation to the Planning Commission but to
retain the current length-of-stay limits for RV Parks in General Plan policy R-LU 85;

WHEREAS, at its March 25, 2021 regular meeting, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing to consider the recommendations from SMPAC and staff, receive
public testimony, and deliberate regarding the proposed General Plan and Zoning Ordinance amendments and voted to forward a favorable recommendation to the Board;

WHEREAS, the Santa Clara County Airport Land Use Commission considered the
proposed General Plan and Zoning Ordinance amendments at its April 28, 2021 regular meeting and voted to find the proposed amendments consistent with the policies contained within the San Martin Airport Comprehensive Land Use Plan;
WHEREAS, the proposed actions related to RV Parks have been reviewed in accordance
with the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") and determined to
be exempt from CEQA pursuant to section 15061(b)(3) of the CEQA guidelines; and

WHEREAS, at its May 25, 2021 regular meeting, the Board held a duly noticed public
hearing to consider staff recommendations, receive public testimony, and deliberate regarding
the proposed General Plan amendments.

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS HEREBY MAKES THE FOLLOWING
FINDING WITH RESPECT TO CEQA:

The proposed Project, which includes the General Plan amendments and related actions
related to RV Parks, including adoption of the Zoning Ordinance amendments and abolition of
the 1994 RV Park Development Design Guidelines, is exempt from review under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), Pub. Res. Code $§ 21000 et seq., pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3). New RV Parks are currently allowed in RS zones as well as 1n Hillsides ("HS"), Rural Residential ("RR"), and General Use ("A1") zones if a discretionary use permit is obtained from the County. The proposed Project would limit new RV Parks to RS zones if a discretionary use permit is obtained from the County. Therefore, it can be seen with it certainty that there is no possibility that the Project may have a significant effect on the environment as compared to the existing environment.

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS HEREBY FURTHER FINDS WITH RESPECT
TO THE PROPOSED GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS:

A. Planning Commission Public Hearing and Recommendation.

The Planning Commission held a properly noticed public hearing regarding the proposed
General Plan amendment on March 25, 2021 in compliance with Government Code section 65353, and voted to forward a favorable written recommendation to the Board in compliance
with Government Code section 65354.

Resolution Amending County General Plan
and Taking Other Actions Related to
RV Parks Page 2 of 5

Exhibit A - 069

B. Public Outreach.

The County's public outreach efforts related to the proposed Project included, but were
not limited to the following:

1. A publicly noticed December, 19, 2019 study session was held with the San Martin Planning Advisory Committee (SMPAC);
2. A publicly noticed December, 20, 2020 study session was held with the County
Planning Commission;

3. Two public outreach meetings one at the South County Office Building in San
Martin on February 25, 2020, and one at the Grant Park and Community Center in Los Altos on March 4, 2020 - were held, which were announced on the Department's project website, shared on social media, and broadcast to relevant stakeholders such as neighborhood groups, frequent applicants, and RV Park owners and applicants;
4. A stakeholder meeting that was intended for RV Park owners and scheduled for February 20, 2020 was ultimately cancelled when no responses were received;

5. A public outreach meeting was held via Zoom on March 22, 2021 for interested
parties for which notice was provided on the Department's project website;

6. A public outreach meeting was held via Zoom on April 15, for interested parties
for which notice was posted on the Department's project website; and

7. A roundtable meeting for RV Park owners was held via Zoom on May 6, 2021.

C. Substantial Modifications Considered by the Planning Commission.

No substantial modifications have been made to the General Plan amendments that were
not previously considered by the Planning Commission when the Commission forwarded its written recommendation to the Board. Therefore, no referral to the Planning Commission pursuant to Government Code section 65356 is required.

D. No General Plan Inconsistencies.

Amendment to the General Plan would not create any internal General Plan
inconsistencies or otherwise cause the General Plan to be deficient.

E. The Amendments Are in the Public Interest.

The General Plan amendments are in the public interest because they will ensure that RV
Parks are located in areas that are consistent with other policies in the General Plan, including policies that preserve rural areas and limit uses in rural areas to those that are low-intensity.

Resolution Amending County General Plan
and Taking Other Actions Related to
RV Parks Page 3 of 5

Exhibit A - 070

General Plan policy R-LU (i) 6 called for the preparation of an RV Park study to analyze the impacts, density, mitigation measures, and other implications of R.V Parks in rural areas. This study was completed in 2019 and one of the key findings was that, although the original intent of allowing RV Parks in rural areas was to provide short-term stays for the traveling public, a significant number of RV Park spaces are now used for long-term housing, which a is a use that is better suited for cities than rural unincorporated areas of Santa Clara County.

F. Information Considered.

In taking action on the General Plan amendments, the Board fully reviewed and
considered the information contained in the staff reports, Planning Commission
recommendations, oral and written testimony received from members of the public and other public agencies, and additional information contained in reports, correspondence, studies,
proceedings, and other matters of record included or referenced in the administrative record of
these proceedings.

G. Administrative Record.

The administrative record for this action is located in the Office of the Clerk of the Board
of Supervisors, and in the Department of Planning and Development. The custodian of documents for the administrative record is: Megan Doyle, Clerk of the Board, 70 W. Hedding Street, 10th Floor, East Wing, San José, California 95110.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of the County
of Santa Clara, State of California, based on the foregoing and all of the oral and written
testimony and materials presented:

1. The amendments to the General Plan attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit A are adopted effective on the same date that the proposed Zoning Ordinance amendments related to RV Parks (Ordinance No. NS-1200.378) become effective;
2. The amendments to the General Plan attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit A shall not apply to any pending use permit application for an RV Park that the County
Department of Planning and Development has deemed complete in accordance with Section
4.20.080 of the Zoning Ordinance on or before the effective date of the General Plan
amendments, provided any such application is not abandoned, and any such complete application shall instead be subject to all provisions of the General Plan and Ordinance Code, including Appendix I, Zoning, that were applicable to the application on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the General Plan amendments adopted pursuant to this Resolution; and

//

//

//

Resolution Amending County General Plan and Taking Other Actions Related to
RV Parks Page 4 of 5

Exhibit A - 071

3. The 1994 RV Park Development Design Guidelines are abolished.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Clara,
State of California, on MAY 2 5 2021 by the following vote:
CHAVEZ, ELLENBERG, LEE AYES: SIMITIAN, WASSERMAN

NOES: NONF

ABSENT: NONE

ABSTAIN: NONE 2fal Eehereres
MIKE WASSERMAN, President
Board of Supervisors

Signed and certified that a copy of this a document has been delivered by electronic
or other means to the President, Board of Supervisors.
ATTEST:

Misy MEGAN DOY
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

APPROVED AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY:

LIZANNE REYNOLDS
Deputy County Counsel

Exhibit A - General Plan Amendments

Resolution Amending County General Plan
and Taking Other Actions Related to
RV Parks Page 5 of 5

Exhibit A - 072

EXHIBIT A

General Plan Amendments

Exhibit A - 073

Hillsides Rural Unincorporated Area Issues and Policies

L.J R-LU 30
Land uses which do not receive a permanent
R-LU 27 entitlement should not be required to dedicate
Land uses proposed for inclusion within the open space or conservation easements of
Hillside zoning ordinance may be evaluated for permanent nature, unless required as
conformity with the intent of this land use mitigation for alterations made to the natural
designation by various measures of land use landscape.
intensity, including but not limited to:
a. waste water generation rates; Development Policies -RV Park
b. traffic generation rates;
C. extent of grading, vegetation removal, R LU 31

drainage modifications, or other alteration Reereational-vehiele (RJ) parks shall primarily
of the natural environment; serve the needs of the traveling publie for shert
d. noise or other nuisance potential; and term accommedations.
e. growth-inducing potential. a. At least sixty five (65%) percent of all spaces
within an RV park shall be designed for and
Development Policies •Non-Residential designated as short-term-occupaney spaces-
Open Space Preservation (he., fewer than 30 days);
b. Twenty five (25) percent ef the total number
R-LU 28 ef spaces may accemmedate-stays-ef-up-te-
For all uses allowed in Hillsides areas other than ene-hundred eighty (180) days;
agricultural and single-family residential land Ten (10) percent of the total number of park
uses, open space preservation by means of spaces may accommodate stays-of up-te
easement dedication may be required in order three-hundred sixty (360) days.
to: [Amended Dee. 5, 1995, File#: 6010 95GP; and
a. protect the public health, safety and general August 5, 1997, File#: 6010-96GPJ
welfare;
b. prevent or mitigate potentially significant *************

adverse environmental impacts; and/or
C. to create perimeter areas that adequately Policy R-LU 32 deleted. See NOTE below.
buffer neighboring properties from adverse *************
off-site impacts of the proposed land use.

R-LU 29 R LU 33

The nature and duration of an open space or Reereational vehiele park-develepment should
conservation easement shall be commensurate eenfirm te the adepted policies, ordinances and
with: a. the nature of the land use; b. the design guidelines of the County ef Santa Clara.
duration to which that use has been entitled *************
through County permitting procedures; and c. the extent of alterations made to the natural NOTE: Policies R-LU 32 and 34 were deleted by
landscape. an amendment to the General Plan adopted Dec. 5, 1995. [File #: 6010-00-00-95GP]

*************

Q-7

Exhibit A - 074

Land Use Policies
Rural Unincorporated Area Issues and Policies

Roadside Services

Development Policies

R-LU 83.1
The minimum lot size for the establishment of
new Roadside Services land use designations NOTE: Policies R-LU 86-87 were deleted by an
and for subdivision of land designated amendment to the General Plan adopted Dec. 5,
Roadside Services shall be five (5) acres. 1995. [File#: 6010-95GP]
[Amended Policies R-LU 83 and 83.1 Sept. 12, *************

2017; File#: 10992-17GP] R-LU 88

R-LU 84 Recreational vehicle park development should
Proposals for new or expanded Roadside conform to the adopted policies, ordinances and
Service designations or uses shall be reviewed
and mitigated for their individual and design guidelines of the County of Santa Clara,

cumulative impacts upon: where applicable.

a. scenic and environmental resources; b. traffic levels and traffic hazards;
C. demands for public services; Solid Waste Disposal Sites
d. adjacent land uses; and,
e. potential for growth-inducing impacts. R-LU 89
New or expanded solid waste disposal sites
Development Policies - RV Parks (landfills) shall be allowed only if in
conformance with the General Plan and
R-LU 85 compatible with surrounding land uses.

Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks shall primarily R-LU 90

serve the needs of the traveling public for New, existing and inactive disposal sites shall be
short-term accommodations unless an designated on the Land Use Plan.
exemption from this requirement is obtained 1. New sites may be allowed only if issued a
from the County pursuant to state law. use permit and if they comply with all state
a. At least sixty five (65%) percent of all spaees and local regulations regarding operations
within an RV park shall be-designed-for and. and reclamation.
designated as shert term occupaney spaces- 2. Expansions of existing landfills must apply
(i.e., fewer than 30 days); for modification of the existing use permit
b. Twenty five (25) percent of the total number and reclamation plans.
efspaces-may accemmedate-stays-efup-te- R-LU 91 ene-hundred eighty (180) days;
Ten (10) percent of the total number of park Once the use of a solid waste disposal site has
spaces may accommedate stays of up to- been terminated, the site shall be reclaimed for

three-hundred sixty (360) days. subsequent allowable open space uses, including, but not limited to parks, preserves, or
[Amended Dec. 5, 1995; File#: 6010-95GP; and other waste management-related uses
Aug. 5, 1997; File#: 6010-96GPJ (composting, transfer sites, etc.).

************* R-LU 92
No solid waste disposal site shall be used for
residential development or any structures for
human occupancy.

Q-16
Exhibit A - 075

Land Use Policies
Rural Unincorporated Area Issues and Policies

Implementation Recommendations - General Implementation Recommendations - City of Morgan Hill Urban Growth Boundary
R-LU (i) 7
Explore the potential feasibility and R-LU(i) 12
effectiveness of establishing a program for Establish explicit, objective planning criteria,
'Hillsides' viewshed parcel consolidation and findings, or prerequisites that will serve as the clustering incentives.
a. Define the pilot study area(s) with patterns basis for considering proposals to modify the location of the UGB. These may include but are
of existing, non-conforming, contiguous not limited to standards for adequate land supply reserves, availability and levels of urban
b. parcels to which the program could apply. Develop regulations to encourage parcel services, consistency with circulation and other
consolidation and cluster incentives.
c. Based upon results of the pilot area plan elements, demographic projections, and
resource conservation criteria. (Implementor:
implementation, modify if necessary and expand the program to additional areas. City of Morgan Hill and County of Santa Clara)

[Note: for further elaboration on the intent and R-LU(i) 13
details of the recommendation, refer to Open Compare actual and assumed growth rates at
Space 2020 recommendation on which this is five year intervals and re-establish 25 year
based]. land supply if the available supply within the long term UGB falls to less than approximately R-LU (i) 8 20 years of developable land. (Implementor: Conduct a review of the uses permitted in the City of Morgan Hill)
'Hillside' zoning ordinance for conformity with
General Plan policies governing allowable uses R-LU(i) 14
in areas designated 'Hillsides.' Develop consistent, coordinated procedures to implement and maintain the UGB.
R-LU (i) 9
Review and revise the 'Hillside' zoning (Implementor: City of Morgan Hill and County of Santa Clara)
ordinance to specify the maximum permissible sizes of facilities allowed in conjunction with R-LU(i) 15
golf courses, including clubhouses, overnight Establish a referral process for unincorporated
accommodations, and restaurants. project proposals and General Plan or zoning interpretation issues which might be
R-LU (i) 10 incompatible with the goals, objectives and
Review and revise the 'Hillside' zoning policies of the Morgan Hill/Santa Clara County
ordinance to more precisely define the nature and allowable densities of retreats, guest long term UGB. (Implementor: County of Santa Clara)
ranches, and similar uses involving overnight
accommodations. R-LU(i) 16
Support and affirm the County's Right-to-Farm
R-LU j) 11 Ordinance and adopt a local Right to Farm Conduet an annual survey of each reereatienal
vehiele (RV) park-in the rural unineerperated- Ordinance to apply to to those areas within the Morgan Hill city limits. (Implementor: City of
area te determiner Morgan Hill and County of Santa Clara)
arthe number ef RVs that stayed at the park
for-more than-30 days during the past year; ***********

and,
b. for these RVs that stayed more than 30 days, Note: Implementation Recommendations R-
1. the number of days they stayed, and LU(i) 17-24 relating to the City of San Jose Urban
2. the number of sehool age children living Growth Boundary (UGB) Area have been set

within them, aside by resolution of the Board of Supervisors December 9, 1997, until further notice.

Q-34
Exhibit A - 076

EXHIBIT B

Exhibit B - 077

1850

Regina Alcomendras
Santa Clara County
Clerk-Recorder
(408) 299-5688
https://www.clerkrecorder.org

Receipt: 21-161211

Product Name Extended
CEQA ENVIRONMENTAL FILING $50.00
#Pages 3
Document # ENV23354
Document Info: COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA
Filing Type E
Total $50.00
Tender (On Account) $50.00
Account# PLN
Account Name SCC DEPT OF PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
Balance $299.00

PLEASE KECRIBOB REFFRENCE 1

5/28/21 2:09 PM efader

of State of California - Department of Fish and Wildiife
2021 ENVIRONMENTAL FILING FEE CASH RECEIPT
DFW 753.Sa (REV. 01/01/21) Previously DFG 753.Sa

RECEIPT NUMBER:
01 - ENV23354
STATECLEARINGHOUSE NUMBER (Ifapplicable)

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE. TYPE OR PRINT CLEARLY
LEAD AGENCY I LEADAGENCY EMAIL DATE
COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA 05/28/2021
COUNTY/STATE AGENCY OF FILING DOCUMENT NUMBER
SANTA CLARA
PROJECT TITLE
RV PARK GENERAL PLANNING AND ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS

PROJECT APPLICANT NAME PROJECT APPLICANT EMAIL PHONE NUMBER
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND (408) 299-5700
PROJECT APPLICANT ADDRESS CITY ISTATE ZIP CODE
70 WEST HEDDING STREET SAN JOSE CA 95110
PROJECT APPLICANT /Cleck appropriate box)
X) Local Public Agency U School District Other Special District C State Agency D Private Entity

CHECK APPLICABLE FEES:
D Environmental Impact Report (EIR) $3,445.25
D Mitigated/Negative Declaration (MND)ND) $2.480.25
0 Gertified Regulatory Program (CRP) document - payment due directly to CDFW $1,171.25

XJ Exempl from fee
X Notice of Exemption (allach) L] CDFW No Effect Determination (attach)
1 Fee proviously paid (attach previously issued cash receipt copy)

D Water Right Application or Petition Foo (StateWater Resources Control Board only) $850.00
X County documentary handling fee 1 Other $50.00

PAYMENT METHOD:
Cash C Credit C Check X Other TOTAL RECEIVED $50.00

SIGNATURE *AGENCYOFFILINGPRINTEDNAMEANDTITLE
la Ladlr Elaine Fader, Deputy County Clerk-Recorder

ORIGINAL- APPLICANT COPY-CDFWIASB COPY -LEAD ASENCY COPY-COUNTY ( DFW 753 5a (Rev 06012020)

Exhibit B - 079

Santa Clara County - Clerk-Recorder Office
County of Santa Clara State of California

Office of the County Clerk-Recorder File Number: ENV23354
Business Division ENVIRONMENTAL FILING
No. of Pages: 3
County Government Center Total Fees: $50.00 •
70 West Hedding Street, E. Wing, 1* Floor File Date: 05/28/2021
San Jose, California 95110 (408) 299-5688 Expires: 06/27/2021
CEQA DOCUMENT DECLARATION REGINA ALCOMENDRAS, Clerk-Recorder
By: Elaine Fader, Deputy Clerk-Recorder
ENVIRONMENTAL FILING FEE RECEIPT
PLEASE COMPLETE THE FOLI.OWING:
1. LEAD AGENCY:. County of Santa Clara
2. PROJECT TITLE: RV Park General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments
3. APPLICANT NAME: Department of Planning and Development PHONE: 408-299-5700

4. APPLICANT ADDRESS: 70 West Hedding Street; San Jose, CA 95110
5. PROJECT APPLICANT IS A: 2 Local Public Agency Ll School District D Other Special District D State Agency  Private Entity
6. NOTICE TO BE POSTED FOR 30 DAYS.
7. CLASSIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL, DOCUMENT
a. PROJECTS THAT ARE SUBJECT TO DEG FEES
0 1. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT (PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE 521152) 3,445.25 5 0.00
2. NEGATIVE DECLARATION. (PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE §2108D(C) 2,480.25 0,00
- 3. APPLICATION FEE WATER DIVERSION (STATE MATER RESOURCES CONTROL BOARD ONLY) 850.00 0.00

0 4. PROJECTS SUBJECT TO CERTIFED REGULATORY PROGRAMS $ 1,171.25 0.00

5. COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE FEE (REQUIRED FOR a-1 THROUGH a-4 ABOVE) Fish & Game Code $711.4(e) 50.00 $ 0.00

b. PROJECIS THAT ARE GXEMPT.ERQM.DEG FEES
1. 2 1. NOTICE OF EXEMPTION ($50.00 COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE FEE REQUIRED) $ 50.00 5 50.00

. 2. A COMPLETED "CEQA FILING FEE NO EFFECT DETERMINATION FORM" FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF FISH 8 GAME, DOCUMENTING THE DFG'S DETERMINATION THAT THE PROJECT WILL HAVE NO EFFECT ON FISH, WILDLIFE AND HABITAT, OR AN OFFICIAL, DATED RECEIPT /
PROOF OF PAYMENT SHOWING PREVIOUS PAYMENT OF THE DFG FILING FEE FOR THE *SAME PROJECT IS ATTACHED ($50.00 COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE FEE REQUIRED)
DOCUMENT TYPE: -I ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT - NEGATIVE DECLARATION $ 50.00 0.00
C. NOTIGES THAT ARE NOT SUBJERT TO DFS FEES QR COUNTY.ADMINISTKATIVE FEES
O NOTICE OF PREPARATION NOTICE OF INTENT NO FEE $ NO FEE

8. OTHER: FEE (IF APPLICABLE):

9. TOTAL RECEIV................-*----.................ce.sc..........rotononcontetomoeoc.m50,00
*NOTE: 'SAME PROJECT* MEANS NO CHANGES. IF THE DOCUMENT SUBMITTED IS NOT THE SAME (OTHER THAN DATES), A 'NO EFFECT DETERMINATION' LETTER FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF FIBL AND GAMC-FOR THE SUDSEQUENT FILING OR THE APPROPRIATE FECG ARC REQUIRED.
THIS FORM MUST BE COMPLETED AND ATTACHED TO THE FRONT OF ALL CEQA DOCUMENTS LISTED ABOVE (INCLUDING ÇOPIES) SUBMITTED FOR FILING, WE WILL NEED AN ORIGINAL (WET SIGNATURE) AND TWO (2) COPIES. IF THERE ARE ATTACHMENTS, PLEASE PROVIDE THREE (3) SETS OF ATTACHMENTS FOR SUBMISSION, (YOUR ORIGINAL WILL BE RETURNED TO YOU AT THE TIME OF FILING.)

CHECKS FOR ALL FEES SHOULD BE MADE PAYABLE TO: SANTA CLARA COUNTY CLERK-RECORDER
PLEASE NOTE: FEES ARE ANNUALLY ADJUSTED (Fish & Game Code §711.4(b); PLEASE CHECK WITH THIS OFFICE AND THE DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND GAME FOR THE LATEST FEE INFORMATION.
*.: NO PROJECT SHALL BE OPERATIVE, VESTED, OR FINAL, NOR SHALL LOCAL GOVERNMENT PERMITS FOR THE PROJECT BE UNTIL THE FILING FEES REQUIRED PURSUANT TO THIS SECTION ARE PAID." Fish 1 Game Code $711.4(c)(3) VALID,

(Feas Effective 01-01-2021)

Exhibit B - 080

County of Santa Clara
Department of Planning and Development OS

County Government Center, East Wing, 7t: Floor 70 West Hedding Street San Jose, California 95110

Administration Development. Services Fire Marshal Planning
Phone: (408) 299-6740 (408) 299-5700 (408) 299-5760 (408)299-5700
Fax: (408) 299-6757 (408) 279-8537 (408) 287-9308 (408) 288-9198

Notice of Exemption from CEQA

To:X County Clerk-Recorder D Office of Planning & Research
County of Santa Clara PO Box 3044, Room 222
Sacramento, CA 95812-3044

Project Title File Number (if applicable)
RV Park General Plan and PLN20-005 and PLN17-11081
Zoning Ordinance Amendments
Project Location [including APN(s) if applicablel
Unincorporated Santa Clara County
Public Agency Approving Project
County of Santa Clara
Person or Agency Carrying Out Address Phone Number
Project
County of Santa Clara 70 West Hedding Street, 408-299-5700
Department of Planning and 7th Floor, E. Wing, San
Development Jose, CA 95110
Applicant Address Phone Number
County of Santa Clara 70 West Hedding Street, 408-299-5700
Department of Planning and 7th Floor, E. Wing, San
Development Jose, CA 95110
Project Description
The project amends the County of Santa Clara General Plan and the County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code, Appendix I (Zoning) relating to policies and regulations for establishment of Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks within unincorporated Santa Clara County, and abolishes the RV Park Development Design Guidelines. The proposed amendments would disallow new or expanded R.V Parks in the General Use (A1), Hillsides (HS) and Rural Residential (RR) zoning districts, where higher intensity residential uses, such as a residential RV park, are not allowed. New or expanded RV Parks would still be allowed in the
Roadside Services (RS) zoning district if a use permit is obtained. The Zoning Ordinance amendments would also amend the supplemental use regulations for RV Parks in Section 4.10.280 to address a variety a of issues including short-term stay requirements and the process for requesting exemptions pursuant to state law; delineation of RV Park boundaries; neighborhood compatibility issues such as
screening, signage and landscaping, employee housing (manager/caretaker)...

Exhibit B 081

standards; and noise requirements. The requirement for RV Parks to obtain Architecture and Site Approval has been eliminated because the relevant ASA findings pertaining to community and neighborhood impacts have been incorporated into the supplemental use regulations. Zoning Ordinance Sections 4.30.030 and 4.30.040 have also been amended to require 1.5 parking spaces for
each RV space plus 1 space for each employee.
Exempt Status (check one, state CEQA Guidelines section number)
Categorical Exemption [CEQA Guidelines 15301-15333]: Statutory Exemption [CEQA Guidelines 15260-15285]:
Declared Emergency [CEQA Guidelines 15269(a)]
Emergency Project [CEQA Guidelines 15269(b)(c)]: x Common Sense Exemption [CEQA Guidelines 15061(b)(3)]

Reasons the project is exempt
It can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the proposed amendments would have a significant effect on the environment. Prior to the approval of the project, new RV Parks were allowed in Road Services ("RS") zones as well as in Hillsides ("HS"), Rural Residential ("RR"), and General Use ("A1") zones if a discretionary use permit was obtained from the County. The Project limits new RV Parks to RS zones if a discretionary use permit is obtained.
Therefore, it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the Project may have a significant effect on the environment as compared to the existing environment because the project would limit the potential establishment of new RV Parks in comparison with existing County regulations.

County Contact Person Title Phone Number

Manira Sandhir Principal Planner 408-299-5787

-Docubigned by:

Signature: Manira Sanduir Date: 5/26/2021
*** C 08023CCAC765483-

Exhibit B - 082

EXHIBIT C

Exhibit C - 083

9.a.d

aRe

1850

COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT

DRAFT

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARKS STUDY o (BuHE8H-sjuawpuswy aoueujpJo Bujuoz pue ueld leJoueg yued Ad : EZPSOL) Apmis qued AX 8LOZ--G quowypeny quowupenv March 7, 2018

Packet Pg. 68 Exhibit C - 084

:: O o a

‡37 :5 E ::.::
88 3: :A R T
:0 & 9i :q: &: :ö IIIIIIII A .. Bg :? . : : ... .. ... :::.... :..: :: . .:. ... .... : ..:... : :: ::::: : : : : . EIEI1I111

N cu 3% 2 N m (Buue3H--suawpuawy eoueujpJo Bujuoz pue ueld General yued Ad: EZPSOL) Ápnas yued Ad 8L0Z--auewypen quewypenv

2 d 8

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS 9.a.d

Attachment 1: County of Santa Clara General Plan - Policies related to RV Parks

Attachment 2: County of Santa Clara Zoning Ordinance - RV park definitions and use regulations
Attachment 3: County of Santa Clara Recreational Vehicle Development Design Guidelines
Attachment 4: California Health and Safety Code, § 18865.2

Attachment 5: Summary of State regulations for RV parks

Attachment 6: RV Park Standards Adopted by Other Jurisdictions

Attachment 7: RV Parks Site Specific Development Standards - Riverside and Yamhill County

Page 3 of 15 Attachment: Attachment D--2018 RV Park Study (105423: RV Park General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing)

Exhibit C - 086 Packet Pg. 70

9.a.d

INTRODUCTION

PURPOSE STATEMENT
The Santa Clara County ("County") General Plan has several policies related to Recreational Vehicle
("RV") Parks, including an implementation measure (R-LU(i)6) to prepare a study of issues related to RV
Parks in rural areas:

R-LU (i) 6 Conduct a study of issues related to Recreational Vehicle (RV) parks in
rural areas, to address at a minimum:
a. the changing roles of RV parks in rural areas
b. establishing a maximum allowable density for RV parks;
c. analyzing the feasibility and appropriateness of establishing minimum parcel size
requirements and limits on the total number of units allowed in one RV park;
d. analyzing the impacts and implications of RV parks in rural areas serving as long C Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing
term, low cost housing; 8
e. proposing mitigation measures to address the identified impacts of RV parks.
Pursuant to the implementation measure, the Department has prepared this RV Park Study ("study") to
address and evaluate issues identified under R-LU (i) 6. The study is intended to inform consideration of adopting policies and ordinance standards to address issues identified within this study related to
density standards, minimum lot size, and other issues relevant to RV parks within rural areas of
unincorporated County.

METHODOLOGY
The methodology employed in this study by the Department included the following:
1. Review and inventory existing RV Parks within the unincorporated County - including permitting
status, site characteristics, density, and conditions.
2. Research other county requirements in the region and state for RV Park standards, with a focus on
the following:
i. where such uses are permitted in rural areas,
il. access/location standards, in. density/intensity standards,
iv. site design/landscaping standards, and
V. mitigation measures - any open space or agriculture resource related dedication
requirements.
3. Review regulatory standards for RV parks, including:
i. Regional Water Quality Control Board standards, and County's Department of
Environmental Health and Local Agency Management Plan requirements.
ii. Housing and Community Development permitting requirements.
iii. County Department of Parks and Recreation standards for RV Park Development in County
Parks. Plan jejauag yued Ad: SZPSOL) Ápmis yued A8 810Z--aquewypeg qquewypeny

Page 4 of 15
Exhibit C - 087 Packet Pg. 71

9.a.d

4. Conduct interviews and site visits of existing RV Parks to identify the nature of the demand for RV
Park spaces in unincorporated Santa Clara County, especially in the rural areas, and to develop an
understanding of trends, RV sales, vacation and use data.

STUDY ORGANIZATION
The study is organized in the following sections:

1. Background and Context: Provides a history of RV Parks and the existing state and local regulatory standards for such parks.
2. Role of RV Parks in Rural Areas: Defines issues related with RV parks in terms of use to provide
affordable housing, and as their potential for use as farmworker housing.
3. Density and Site-specific Standards: Defines existing densities of RV parks in the County, and site-
specific standards adopted by other jurisdictions. This section also defines which specific zoning
districts allow the use of such RV parks in other jurisdictions.
4. Environmental Issues: Identifies the environmental issue related to RV parks and how to address any
such concerns.
5. Key Findings: Summarizes the key findings of the study.

BACKGROUND AND CONTEXT

HISTORY OF RV PARKS
Historically, RV Parks in the United States were principally used for short term recreational purposes, set
a up in a remote location to experience the natural environment. However, as early as the 1930s a
growing number of families began to use recreational vehicles as a form of affordable housing. These
initial permanent stay RV residents included construction and agricultural workers and families of
modest means.1 05423: RV Park General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing) %

When RVs began to appear as a housing option, the potential rapid influx of people that this new
housing form could facilitate began to concern local government, especially with regards to demands on
municipal services such as schools and sanitation.2 Larger trailers intended for full time occupancy by
their manufacturers were still codified by various regulatory regimes as travel trailers. In order to
improve the regulation with respect to manufactured (mobile) homes, a clearer distinction was
established between mobile homes and recreational vehicles.
Two laws have been adopted by the State of California, namely, "Mobilehome Parks Act" and "Special
Occupancy Parks Act", to distinctly govern mobilehome parks and RV Parks respectively. The laws
distinguish mobilehome parks from RV parks. The State defines mobilehome parks as any area or tract
of land to accommodate manufactured homes, mobilehomes or recreational vehicles used for human
habitation; while RV parks are defined as any area or tract of land, or a separate designated section

Richard H. Foster Jr., "Wartime Trailer Housing in San Francisco Bay Area" Geographical Review Vol. 70,
No. 3 (1980, July): pp. 276-277 Apmis yued Ad 8L07--aquawypeny nuewypenv
Foster, "Wartime Trailer Housing in San Francisco Bay Area", pp.277

Page 5 of 15
Exhibit C - 088 Packet Pg. 72

9.a.d

within a mobilehome park where two or more lots accommodate owners or users of recreational
vehicles, camping cabins, or tents. (California Health and Safety Code, Section 18008 and 18010)

EXISTING REGULATORY FRAMEWORK

County Requirements
While the State permits the construction and operation of RV parks (defined as 2 or more RVs on a
property), the local land use authority remains with the County, under the following provisions. Policies
and standards related to RV Parks summarized below:

1. County's General Plan: Development policies for RV Parks in the County General plan were adopted
for Hillsides and Roadside Services land use designations (R-LU 31 and R-LU 85 respectively; see
Attachment 1). Both policies establish RV Park use as primarily serving the needs of the travelling
public for short term accommodations.

2. County's Zoning Ordinance: Uses classified as RV Parks are described in § 2.10.040. Zoning
Ordinance § 4.10.280 contains supplemental use regulation for RV Parks. RV Parks are subject to
requirements including duration of stays, general health and safety provisions, amenities, fire safety, access and parking, school district review, unoccupied RV storage screening and manager/employee housing (see Attachment 2). The Zoning Ordinance allows RV Park development within
unincorporated County lands designated as Hillsides, Roadside Services, Rural Residential (RR), and
General Use (A1), subject to a Use Permit and an Architecture and Site Approval (ASA).

Duration of stay requirements were adopted by the County General Plan in 1994 (refer R-LU 31 and / Park General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing)
R-LU 85) and the County Zoning Ordinance was subsequently updated to establish consistency with 2
the General Plan. Stay requirements in § 4.10.280 of the Zoning Ordinance below state the
following:

The RV park is designed primarily to accommodate short-term occupancy stay
(fewer than 30 days). At least 65 percent of all the spaces within an RV park shall
be designed for and designated as short-term occupancy spaces. Not more than
25 percent of the total park spaces may accommodate stays up to 180 days. Not more than ten (10) percent of the total number of park spaces may accommodate : EZtSOL) Ápnas yed.
stays up to 360 days. Furthermore, the park shall be designed to provide for all >
the needs and amenities of the long-term occupancy of families with and without
children.

3. Recreational Vehicle Development Design Guidelines were adopted by the County in March 1994 to be consistent with State law and regulations for Special Occupancy Parks. These guidelines are used
for reviewing new or expanded RV park development proposals in the County and are applicable to
all zoning districts in which RV parks are allowed. The guidelines include standards for minimum
distance of RV spaces from buildings, recreation facilities, interior landscaping, perimeter
landscaping, noise, signs and parking. For RV Parks located in the Hillside zoning district, the
guidelines indicate that other standards may be adopted. See Attachment 3 for RV Development BLO7--aquawyen quawyen Design Guidelines.

Page 6 of 15
Exhibit C - 089 Packet Pg. 73

9.a.d

State Requirements

1. California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD): California law governing is Special Occupancy parks is entitled the "Special Occupancy Parks Act" ("SOPA"). Under the authority
of HCD, the Division of Codes and Standards oversees the Special Occupancy (RV) Parks Act or SOPA.
The SOPA establishes standards, requirement for permits, fees, and responsibilities of RV park
operators and enforcement agencies to maintain consistent construction and operation standards across the state. HCD oversees and enforces all aspects of RV park construction and operation through RV Park Construction Permits and Permits to Operate.

RV Parks, under the state are defined as any area with two or more RVs, camping cabins or tent
spaces, and requires operating permits from the state. RV Parks, up to 12 spaces, for the purpose of
housing agricultural employees, do not require any operational permits from HCD. The following definitions from SOPA provide for the various types of RV Parks permitted through the State:
"Recreational vehicle park" is any area or tract of land, or a separate designated
section within a mobilehome park where two or more lots are rented, leased, or
held out for rent or lease, or were formerly held out for rent or lease and later
converted to a subdivision, cooperative, condominium, or other form of resident
ownership, to accommodate owners or users of recreational vehicles, camping
cabins, or tents.

"Temporary recreational vehicle park" is any area or tract of land where two or
more lots are rented, leased, or held out for rent or lease to owners or users of recreational vehicles and that is established for one operation not to exceed 11
consecutive days, and is then removed.
(b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), an area or tract of land zoned for agricultural
purposes where two or more lots are rented, leased, or held out for rent or lease
to accommodate owners or users of 12 or fewer recreational vehicles for the
purpose of housing agricultural employees shall not be deemed a temporary recreational vehicle park for the purposes of the requirement to obtain an initial
or annual permit to operate or pay any fees related thereto required by this part.

"Lot" means any area or tract of land or portion of a special occupancy park,
designated or used for the occupancy of one manufactured home, mobilehome, recreational vehicle, tent, camp car, or camping party.
2. A component of the provisions for Special Occupancy Parks (California Health and Safety Code
Section 18865.2) allows an RV Park owner to apply for an exemption to any length-of-stay
requirement imposed by a local jurisdiction. The exemption from length-of-stay requirements
became operative in 2004-almost a decade after the current length-of-stay requirements in the
General Plan was adopted. Accordingly, under State law if an RV Park owner applies for an
exemption from the County's length-of-stay requirement, the County must grant the requested
exemption, unless it can demonstrate, through substantial findings, specific adverse effects due to lack of needful overnight tourist spaces. These short-term stay needs can typically be substantiated
in areas of high tourist volumes and demand, such as coastal areas or in or around national/state (Bupe8H--squawpuawy BQuBuIpJo Bujuoz pue ueld leuouag qued Ad : EZPSOL) Apmis qued Ad 8LOZ--Qquawupeny quowupeny 2 è
parks. See Attachment 4 for California Health and Safety Code Section 18865.2.

Page of 15
Exhibit C - 090 Packet Pg. 74

9.a.d

3. Regional Water Control Board: Permits from the Regional Water Quality Board are required to
establish an RV Park based on how wastewater from the facility is treated and then disposed. There are several types of permits that could apply to an RV facility, namely, a) State or Regional General Waste Discharge Requirements permit, b) State or Regional General NPDES Waste Discharge
Requirements permit, c) Individual Waste Discharge Requirements permit, or d) Individual NPDES
Waste Discharge Requirements permit.
See Attachment 5 for a summary of public agency standards for RV parks, including: HCD permitting
requirements and RV Park standards, Regional Water Quality Control Board standards and County's
Department of Environmental Health and Local Agency Management Plan requirements.

CHANGING ROLE OF RV PARKS IN RURAL AREAS

Based on interviews with RV Park operators in the County, it was established that RV Parks in rural areas
have been serving two distinct functions: 1) RV parks for recreational use; 2) RV parks for affordable
housing/farmworker housing. In current times, with the County and the Bay Area region as a whole has D

a shortage of affordable housing due to rapid job growth and the use of recreational vehicles and RV
Parks as a form of affordable housing has been on a steady rise.
The Morgan Hill School District has identified that 22% of the student population that falls under the
McKinney Vento Homeless Act are from RV Parks situated within the District boundary, which includes
RV Parks within the City of Morgan Hill. Based on input from the Morgan Hill Unified School District, Director of Student Services and Enrollment Linda Row, families are living in RVs because it is an
affordable alternative to renting, and as such are identified under the federal McKinney Vento Homeless Assistance Act. Homeless students are provided with free lunch and free school bus transportation, as
well as other support services managed through the school districts.

Taking examples of existing privately-operated RV Parks in the County and based on site visits and
discussions with the operators, one-third (1/3) or more of the RV Park population is made up of
residents staying for a duration of over one year, although County regulations allow 10 percent of the
total number of park spaces for stays up to 360 days.

The longer-term occupants, based on interviews with some RV park owners, are typically construction workers, farmworkers, traveling nurses, high-tech industry employees, and people who rent their homes while living in an RV to pay off their mortgages. Some residents use loopholes around any short-term stay requirements that an RV park may impose, to move to other RV parks within or in neighboring
counties for a few days, and then return to the RV park. In one of the jurisdiction's researched,
Tillamook County, short-term stay requirements include cumulative maximum annual length-of-stay standards to better meet the intent. Their standard for short term stay are maximum 30 consecutive day
or 120 consecutive days per year.

The privately-owned RV Parks in the unincorporated rural County, while envisioned by the General Plan
for short-term tourist/traveler need, do not have the same level of tourist demand to substantiate
short-term stay requirements. Many of the RV parks within the County cater to longer-term stay
requirements. The RV Parks located within unincorporated County, with one exception, pre-date the jeJauag yuied Ad : EZPSOL) Ápmis qued Ad 8L0Z--aquowypeny quawypen o Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing)

Page 8 of 15
Exhibit C - 091 Packet Pg. 75

9.a.d

stay requirements in the General Plan and Zoning Ordinance. Consequently, the existing policies and the
short-term stay requirements have not been tenable to maintain and enforce.

DENSITY AND SITE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS

EXISTING RV PARKS IN THE COUNTY
Currently there are six (6) RV Parks operational within the unincorporated County, namely: 1) Oak Dell RV Park, 2) Coyote Valley RV Resort, 3) Uvas Pines RV Park, 4) Thousand Trails Morgan Hill RV Park, 5) Parkway Lakes RV Park, 6) Casa De Fruta RV Park and 7) Saratoga Springs RV Camping (see Map 1). The
characteristics of existing privately-operated RV Parks in Table 1 below:

Project Year Parcel No of Density per Density

Name Establishe Location Zoning Size RV acre (by per acre

d (acres) Units development (by lot
area only)*
Oak Dell size) *
1993 12790 Hillsides 42 57 4
RV Park 1.3
Watsonvill (HS-d1-sr)
e Rd.,
Morgan Hill
Coyote 1999 9750 Roadside 9.93 129 13
Valley 13
Monterey Services
RV Resort Rd., (RS)
Morgan Hill ¡ejeuag yied, Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing)

Uvas 1990 13210 Uvas Hillsides 75.52 40 2

Pines RV 0.5
Rd., (HS-sr)
Park Morgan Hill
Thousand 1981 12985 Uvas Agriculture 62 318 10
Trails RV Rd., (A-20ac-sr)
Park Morgan Hill

5 Parkway early 1970s 100 Ogier Roadside 36.85 108 18
Lakes RV 3
Avenue, Services :EZPSOL) Apnis yued,
Park Morgan Hill (RS) &

6 Case De 1978 6680 Roadside 110 474 20 4.5
Fruta Pacheco Services acres
RV Park Pass (RS)
Highway

7 Saratoga early 1900s 22801 Big Hillsides 37.9 42
Springs RV 10
Basin Way (HS-sr) acres
Camping Saratoga

Density is by RV spaces per acre, as compared to developed area on site, and as compared to the
entire lot size quawypeny Attachment D--201

Page 9 of 15
Exhibit C - 092 Packet Pg. 76

9.a.d

Map 1: RV Parks Located in Santa Clara County

Sunnyvaleer
Santa Clara

Saratoga

Saratoga Springs
RV Camping

sita Comtl Coyote Valley Resort
RV Park

Parkway Lakes
RV Park

Lomond
Uvas Pines RV Park
Oak Dell RV Park®

Thousand Trails®
RV Park

Santa Cruz Twin Lakes Capitola

Case De Fruta
RV Park

Saf Juaan Bautista

St Vehiu Attachment: Attachment D--2018 RV Park Study (105423 : RV Park General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing)

Page 10 of 15
Exhibit C - 093 Packet Pg. 77

STANDARDS FOR RV PARKS - COUNTY AND OTHER JURISDICTIONS 9.a.d

Density
Density of the existing privately-operated RV Parks in the in County vary from 9 RVs per acre to 20 RVs per
acre (refer Table 1). Typically, the RV parks in hillside areas are at significantly lower densities when compared to RV parks in Roadside Services location, particularly in the valley.

The County and jurisdictions in and around the Bay Area (Group 1: Marin, San Mateo, Solano, Napa,
Sonoma, Santa Cruz, Monterey and San Benito) do not have maximum allowable density standards for
RV parks. Maximum allowable density standards for RV Parks in other jurisdictions (Group 2: Los Angeles, Riverside, and three rural Oregon counties-Clatsop, Tillamook and Yamhill) ranged from 4 to 30 RVs/ acre. Hence, there was no consistent applicable standard for RVs Parks found.

Group 1 jurisdictions do not allow RV Parks in Rural Residential (RR), or comparable zoning districts.
Typically, other jurisdictions allowed RV parks in commercial recreation, planned development, parks, watershed and open space zones. Only Riverside County allowed RV parks in all zoning districts.

See Attachment 6 for RV Park standards and zoning districts allowing RV parks in other jurisdictions. in

Site specific standards
Taking reference from outside area jurisdictions, namely, Riverside County (California) and Yamhill
County (Oregon), standards for site specific design and management were collated; including standards for site design and landscaping (open space, buffer, setbacks within RV parks, interior roads, landscape,
lighting, pedestrian walkways, utilities, walls and fences), RV space requirements, parking, accessory
structures, amenities and park management.

Riverside County included standards related to buffers and open space designation. For example,
setbacks and buffer requirements were identified for adjacent streets or existing single-family
development, and, a minimum 25 percent of net site area dedication to open space. Riverside also has a O 0 Park General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing

minimum 5-acres lot-size requirement to establish RV Parks. 2

Yamhill County, Oregon, had detailed setback requirements within RV parks, namely, RV spaces must be
at least five (5) feet setback from any buffer area, at least ten (10) feet setback from any private road, at
least twenty (20) feet setback from any service building, service area, recreation area, or from another
RV space and at least twenty-five (25) feet setback from any boundary of the RV park. Landscaping
requirements for RV Parks in Yamhill County were also the most comprehensive with standards

permitted. established for RV space improvement, minimum width of pedestrian walkways and types of plantation

See Attachment 7 for RV Parks Site Specific Development Standards in Riverside and Yamhill County. Attachment: Attachment D--2018 RV Park Study EZTSOL)

Page 11 of 15
Exhibit C - 094 Packet Pg. 78

9.a.d

ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES

This section identifies the critical environmental issue related to RV park development in the rural areas
and how to address any such concerns.

WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND GROUNDWATER
In unincorporated County and the rural areas, rural residential uses, rural supportive uses, recreational
uses, and agricultural development rely on individual wells and on-site wastewater treatment systems.
Typically, these wastewater treatment systems are permitted through the County's Department of
Environmental Health, consistent with the County's Onsite Wastewater Treatment Ordinance, adopted
by the Board in 2013 (unless exceeding 10,000 gallons per day design flow, in which case, they are permitted by the state). However, all RV Parks (2 or more RVs, as defined by the State) are permitted
through the Regional Water Quality Control Boards, as it falls into the Special Occupancy Park category,
and are not permitted by the County's Department of Environmental Health.
in RV parks in the rural areas present a unique challenge as they necessitate onsite waste water treatment
systems for wastewater disposal and have higher concentrations of nitrates and chemicals per gallon of
water, when compared to other uses in the rural areas. This high-strength waste is generated because of
lower water use in RVs as waste is stored in holding tanks. Depending on the depth of groundwater and
availability, or lack thereof, of on-site area and treatment options, these systems have the higher
potential to lead to groundwater contamination. Since RV parks in urban service areas or within cities
rely on city sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment systems (known as Publicly Owned Treatment
Works [POTW]), this potential for groundwater contamination does not occur.
An individual RV typically has a daily wastewater flow of 50 gallons per day (gpd) when using dump
stations, and 100 gpd when hooked to a septic system.3 The County requires cumulative assessments for
groundwater mounding and groundwater nitrate loading for sensitive land uses with high wastewater
flows and/or areas with high nitrate levels. The State uses the County's Local Agency Management Plan
(LAMP) to inform its review and permitting for RV Parks and any other uses that fall within their
permitting authority.
The following Table-1 lists when such assessments are required, under the LAMP for multi-unit or non-
residential uses, such as RV parks.4

3 Santa Clara County, Onsite Systems Manual: Part 3 General and Conventional OWTS Requirements,
May 2014, Table 3-2.
https://www.sccgov.org/sites/cpd/programs/LU/Documents/LU_Section3_InstallationRequirements.pdf
4 Santa Clara County, Local Agency management Plan for Onsite Wastewater Treatment Systems, July
2014, Appendix E. https://www.sccgov.org/sites/cpd/programs/LU/Documents/LU_SCC_LAMP.pdf Attachment: Attachment D--2018 RV Park Study ueld lejaueg yied Ad : EZtSOL 5 and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing)

Page 12 of 15
Exhibit C - 095 Packet Pg. 79

9.a.d

Table-1: Multi-unit and Non-residential Projects Requiring Cumulative Assessments
RV Spaces at RV Spaces
which site- at which
Lot Groundwater specific Site- Geographic Size Design Nitrate Groundwater specific Location (acres) I Wastewater Mounding Loading Nitrate Flow (gpd) Analysis Analysis Mounding
Analysis Loading
Required Analysis
Required
No Yes RV
15 (with hook-
1,500+ Yes No ups)
30 (without Countywide hook-ups)
Same as above 25 (with
2,500+ Yes Yes hook-ups)
50 (without
hook-ups)
15 (with hook- c Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing)

<5 Per Yes ups) ?
30 (without
San Martin Countywide hook-ups)
Area* requirements 10 (with
hook-ups) >5 1,000+ above Yes Same as above 20 (without
hook-ups) ueld leJouag

Note: * For lot sizes greater than 5 acres, 10 RVs (with hooks-ups) or 20 RVs (without hook-sups) would trigger a site-specific
cumulative assessment for nitrate loading analysis. This could implies that for lot sizes greater than 5 acres, a density of 2 RVS
per acre (with hook-ups) or 4 RVs/acre without hook-ups may be considered safe in terms of their nitrate loading potential, if
the site-specific conditions support this density.
To summarize this table, groundwater mounding analysis5 is required if the daily wastewater flows
exceed 1,500 gpd, irrespective of location and lot size. However, nitrate loading analysis is required
based on location (within San Martin or not), lot size, and daily wastewater flows.

Countywide, in areas other than San Martin, 25 or more RVs (if with hook-ups) or 50 or more RVs
(without hook-ups) would trigger this requirement.
RV parks that rely on an on-site waste water treatment system require a Regional Water Quality Control
Board waste discharge permit, with routine monitoring to verify safe maximum contaminant levels
(MCL). The Central Coast Regional Water Quality Control Board has indicated that the Water Board's
main concerns for RV facilities are Total Nitrogen and formaldehyde concentrations impacting
groundwater.

5 Groundwater mounding is described as a rise in the water table, which may occur beneath or down- gradient of OWTS as a result of the concentrated or high-volume of hydraulic loading from one or more
systems in a limited area (County Onsite Systems Manual Part 2 Site Evaluation Methods and d Ad: EZPSOL) Ápmis yued Ad 8LOZ--a quawypeny nuawypeny
Investigation Requirements, Appendix E Guidelines for Cumulative Impact Assessment, May 2014.

Page 13 of 15
Exhibit C - 096 Packet Pg. 80

9.a.d

The Llagas Sub-basin, which is the area in the southern Santa Clara valley that supports agriculture and
includes the San Martin community, is designated for the following beneficial uses; Municipal, Domestic,
and Agriculture Water Supply. These beneficial uses have very defined criteria that is listed in the Basin
Plan, and antidegradation standards are required for any project to be consistent with these standards
in the basin plan. 5 Therefore, for nitrogen, the Total Nitrogen limit of 5mg/L within the Llagas sub-basin
iS more restrictive than the drinking water MCL of 10 mg/L.'.
Due to the design of an RV's disposal system and the use of formaldehyde-based odor suppressants, an
increase in formaldehyde has also been observed through groundwater monitoring, as confirmed by the
Central Coast Water Quality Control Board. Where RVs designed with P-traps include a steady water
supply, odors are reduced or eliminated, and formaldehyde-based deodorizers are less likely, preventing
any potential for contamination.
Within the County, there are different groundwater depths depending on the region, between the
hillside areas or the valley floor. San Martin also presents its own unique set of challenges due to higher
nitrate levels within the Llagas groundwater sub basin. Based on discussions with the Department of
Environmental Health, the Regional Water Quality Control Boards, and the Santa Clara Valley Water
District, screening criteria based on the size of the lot, groundwater depths, and rainfall for the sub-
regions of the County, could potentially be developed.

KEY FINDINGS

Key findings of this study, based on the above analysis, include the following:
1. Changing role of RV Parks in Rural Areas: RV Parks in the current environment provide two disparate
purposes - 1) Long-term affordable housing; and 2) Short duration of stay for the traveling public. The
General Plan had only envisioned such parks for the latter use. Mobile home parks, or multi-family
housing is not envisioned for the unincorporated County and is considered better-suited for the cities.
2. Establishing specific standards: No universal thumb rule was found, but site-specific standards based
on context and surrounding areas can be developed. Minimum parcel sizes could be established in
Hillside areas, and limits on number of RV parks, or distance between RV parks can be explored for
Roadside Service areas. Site specific standards and stay requirements can be bolstered to follow models
from other jurisdictions, and prevent misuse, incompatibility issues, and provide for buffers and (BuLe8H--sjuawpuewy eoueuipio Bujuoz pue ueld lEJ3u3O qied Ad : EZPGOL) Ápmis yued Ad
dedication requirements to protect the resource areas of the County.
3. Screening levels to prevent groundwater impacts from RV parks can be created. Further coordination
with the state can allow feasibility of wastewater treatment measures in advance of any entitlement
applications.

6 Regional Water Quality Control Board Central Coast Region, Water Quality Control Plan
for the Central Coastal Basin, Sep 2017, pages 33, 34 & 40.
https://www.waterboards.ca.gov/centralcoast/publications_forms/publications/basin_plan/
Santa Clara County Department of Environmental Health, Local Agency Management Plan for Onsite
Wastewater Treatment Systems Appendix B Cumulative Nitrate and Salt Loading from OWTS in Santa oz--aquawypenv quawypenv
Clara County, July 2014.

Page 14 of 15
Exhibit C - 097 Packet Pg. 81

DEPARTMENT CONTACTS 9.a.d

If you have questions regarding this report, contact:

Rob Eastwood, Planning Manager
rob.eastwood@pln.sccqov.org
(408) 299-5792

Manira Sandhir, Principal Planner
manira.sandhir@pln.sccgov.org
(408) 299-5787

Charu Ahluwalia, Associate Planner
charu.ahluwalia@pln.sccqov.org
(408) 299-5740

Page 15 of 15 Attachment: Attachment D--2018 RV Park Study (105423: RV Park General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments--Hearing) °

Exhibit C - 098 Packet Pg. 82

E
68 B Ln ö
D † O .9 6 7 E t g s 1
ag oo 4 g & 6% Qo g n 1 3 as % 36F8 EE - 6
g$ 83 Q + g 3 E c ü
s 18 § d
d d n o & L Ln N 8 § * § T § 20 8 § g6 H 38- % * T 2

s n * O g c 5 § 3

Id 2 5 & Attachment: Attachment E--Neighboring Jurisdiction RV Park Parking Requirements (105423 : RV Park General Plan and aqueujpJo Bujuoz g S §

U a v d g ≥ fi s B ti o o y. g &

EXHIBIT D

Exhibit D - 100

E OURRO

1850

Public Outreach Meeting South County
February 25, 2020
6:30 PM

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (RV PARK)
GENERAL PLAN AND ZONING AMENDMENTS

PLANNER: KAVITHA KUMAR

Exhibit D - 101

PURPOSE OF OUTREACH MEETING

Informational:
Background
Existing Regulations WA
Project Impetus
Issue Identification:
RV Park Study
Key Findings
Proposed Approach
Public Input

Exhibit D - 102

EXISTING REGULATIONS FOR RV PARKS

Fast

-H.

RV Parks
currently allowed
in HS, A1, RR, RS
Zoning Districts

Santa UrE

Zoning
A1: General Use RR: Rural Residential
HS: Hillside RS: Roadside Services Exhibit D - 103

EXISTING COUNTY REGULATIONS
RV Parks Allowed in the County:
Recreational Only, Not for Residential Purposes
With Short Term Stay Requirements
a. 65% spaces for fewer than 30 days;
b. 25% spaces for up to 180 days;
C. 10% spaces for up to 360 days.

Exhibit D - 104

EXISTING COUNTY REGULATIONS
Other Applicable County Requirements
Supplemental Use Standards Development Guidelines
Time Limits Site Design
School District Review Landscaping
Access and Parking Parking
Screening Signage
RV Storage Noise
Fire Safety
Amenities

Exhibit D - 105

EXISTING STATE REGULATIONS

State Regulations
Special Occupancy Parks Act (SOPA)
HCD Construction and Operation permits
Other State Permits:
Water and Septic Permits

Exhibit D - 106
6

JUEd AN any eg ese!
Ed AN B90 1PO

LOL- GIq!4xa ed AX qjes pue snoul IEd AX Ivas Pim osey Kejen 23oÃog ped A8

WV Park 1 (enyred

Burduieg Ad eßuudg eßapJeg

E

&

SYHVd EXISTING

PROJECT IMPETUS
1994 General Plan Required an RV Park Study for:
a. Changing roles of RV parks in rural areas;
b. maximum allowable density for RV parks;
C. establishing minimum parcel size requirements and limits on the total
number of units allowed in one RV park;
d. impacts and implications of RV parks in rural areas serving as long term,
low cost housing; and

e. proposing mitigation measures

Exhibit D - 108

KEY FINDINGS OF RV PARK STUDY

County has length-of-stay requirements for RV Parks
This prevents RV parks from being used as Residential
RV parks
2004 State Law limits County's ability to impose length-
of-stay restrictions on RV parks

Exhibit D - 109

KEY FINDINGS OF RV PARK STUDY

RV Parks as a Residential Use
Potential to function as mobile home parks
Long-term high-density housing inconsistent with
General Plan policies

Exhibit D - 110
10

OPTIONS PRESENTED (2018)
1. Maintain current regulations
2. RV Parks as affordable housing in rural areas
3. Residential RV Parks at current base zoning
densities
4. Allow RV Parks only in select zones designated
for higher intensity uses like Roadside Services
(RS) Zoning District

Exhibit D - 111

PROPOSED APPROACH
1. Eliminate length-of-stay restrictions
(allowing residential and/or recreational RV
Parks)
2. Amend General Plan and Zoning to allow RV
Parks only in RS Zoning District
3. No Density Requirements in RS Zoning
District

Exhibit D - 112
12

syled Zoning & Zoning E 8 General Amend 19

% allow 2

STAFF RECOMMENDATION MONTEREY RD 4

BXY (RVO M OSTA COETIOTO

TENTATIVE TIMELINE
February/March 2020: Public outreach
Meeting Dates: February 25, 2020 in South County
March 4, 2020 in West County
March/April 2020: General plan and zoning
ordinance amendments
April 2020: Planning Commission hearing
May/June 2020: Board of Supervisors action

Exhibit D - 114
14

COOUIRE
CTO
QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (RV PARK)
GENERAL PLAN AND ZONING AMENDMENTS

PLANNER: KAVITHA KUMAR

Exhibit D - 115
15

EXHIBIT E

Exhibit E - 116

RA TOCH ATTORNEY AT LAW

March 24, 2021

Via E-Mail: planning.commission@pln.sccgov.org

Ms. Aimee Escobar, Chairperson
Vicki Moore, Vice Chairperson
Ms. Gabriela Chavez-Lopez, Mr. Erin Gil, Mr. Bob Levy,
Mr. Marc Rauser, and Ms. Kathy Schmidt
Members of the Planning Commission of the County of Santa Clara
Seventy West Hedding Street, Seventh Floor
San Jose, CA 95110

Re: Santa Clara County Planning Commission
Meeting Date: March 25, 2021
Agenda Item Number: 6
Title of Matter: Proposed text amendments to the County of Santa Clara
General Plan, County of Santa Clara Ordinance Code,
Appendix / (Zoning), and Recreational Vehicle (RV) Park
Guidelines regarding policies and regulations for
establishment of RV Parks
Planning Dept. File Nos.: PLN20-005 and PLN17-11081. (ID# 105204) Position on Issue: Opposed

Dear Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Commission:

This Law Firm represents Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. ("ELS") and its subsidiaries which
own and operate Thousand Trails Morgan Hill RV Resort ("TTMH"). TTMH is located in unincorporated Santa Clara County on County Highway G8 near the junction of
Watsonville Road and Uvas Road. The purpose of this letter is to argue on behalf of ELS
against adoption of the above referenced, ill-conceived, fiscally unsound, and harmful
proposal, that the Board of Supervisors amend the County's General Plan to abruptly, and
without grace period, remove private camp grounds that accommodate Recreational
Vehicles from the list of permitted uses in all areas of the County, except for a handful of
urban sites in high traffic areas, and to further oppose staff's recommendation that the
Planning Commission find that the contemplated draconian action, which directly affects
dozens of local businesses, as well as, potentially, hundreds of thousands of individual RV

(408) 762-9712 • P.O. Box 66, Morgar: Hili, C.A 95C38-0066 • rtoch@tochlawfirm.com

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 2

tourists, while changing on a countywide basis, population densities, permissible business locations, traffic patterns, and the literal ability of persons to use their privately owned recreational vehicle, fifth wheel, or travel trailer, to just take their families camping in a natural setting, is somehow, exempt from review under the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"). Additionally, this letter will correct and augment the incomplete
and often inaccurate information submitted to you by planning staff in its report.

First a bit of information about our client, which was downloaded from the TTMH website:

Since 1969, Thousand Trails has welcomed generations of families at campgrounds across the country. Thousand Trails is one of the largest
networks of RV resorts and campgrounds in North America, with over 80 locations in 22 states and British Columbia. We combine the beauty and
relaxing atmosphere of a scenic nature preserve with the resort-style amenities and fun events and activities for the whole family to enjoy. Our
resorts and campgrounds are enjoyed by members and non-members alike.

TTMH opened for business in the early 1980s, has now been serving the vacationing public for over 40 years and has every intention to continue providing these services. There are
exciting expansion plans in the works.

The proposed ordinances would prohibit new campgrounds in natural settings and render it all but impossible for existing parks, like TTMH, to grow and evolve with our community
and continue to offer the resort vacation experience that its members and other visitors
to the Santa Clara Valley deserve and expect. For nearly a century, TTMH a and similar private businesses have created good jobs, and brought millions of dollars into local economies, especially restaurants and retailers, while also generating property tax, sales tax, and transit occupancy tax, for the County's budget. The effect of the proposed ordinance would be to cause private campgrounds and resorts to wither away and die over time. It is worth noting that similar campgrounds located in natural settings, which happen to be owned and operated by the County of Santa Clara, such as Coyote Lake County Park and Mt. Madonna County Park, are entirely unaffected by the proposed
ordinances.

Here are just few of the notable discrepancies that are expressly stated and/or implied
in the Staff Report:

Exhibit E - 118

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 3

1. Limited Right to Request Exemption from Length of Stay Requirements in Special
Occupancy Parks. First and foremost, it is entirely disingenuous for planning staff to conflate short term vacation and recreational camping destinations with the very real need to address the current housing crisis in our community. To the best of our knowledge and belief, NOTHING in applicable state law requires staff - or the planning commission to do so. Quite the contrary, the relevant statute, which has been in
continuous effect since 2004, is abundantly clear that recreational use takes precedence over long term housing use in every instance, and that it is up to Planning
Staff to administer the balance. In connection with the foregoing, Health & Safety Code §18865.2 states, in part, as follows:

Health & Safety Code §18865.2.
(a) In any city, county, or city and county that has imposed a time limitation for occupancy of spaces in special occupancy parks, any special occupancy park owner may apply for an exemption to that limitation. The exemption
shall be granted unless the city, county, or city and county makes a substantial finding that based on, but not limited to, the lack of needed
overnight or tourist spaces in those special occupancy parks in the city, county,
or city and county, that the exemption of the applicant's special occupancy
park from the time limitation would cause specific adverse impacts which cannot be mitigated or avoided by providing partial exemption as set forth in subdivision (b) or by imposing conditions pursuant to subdivision (c). (b) The requirements of subdivision (a) may be satisfied by partial exemption
if either of the following applies:
(1) A number of spaces in a special occupancy park are set aside for short- term occupancy, and the remaining spaces are exempted by the city, county,
or city and county from the occupancy limitation. . . . [Emphasis Added]

Accordingly, in the case of recreational RV parks, as opposed to residential parks, the County would be well within its rights upon receiving an application for exemption from time limits to require that a reasonable number of spaces be set aside for tourists. To the
best of our knowledge, there is nothing in the relevant statutes that suggest a tourist a centric destination RV park must instantly be converted to a mobile home community at the sole discretion and request of the operators,

2, The Recommendations were Prepared Without Input from the Stakeholders and Affected
Business Owners. As noted in the November 21, 2019 Memorandum to the Planning
Commission from Kavitha Kumar, Senior Planner, pursuant to the County's 1994 General

Exhibit E - 119

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 4

Plan Implementation Policy R-LU(i)(6) in March and October 2018 a RV Park Study was
prepared and presented to the HLUET Committee. This was the first RV Study in over 24 years and the results are questionable.

For example, on Page 6 of the staff report, staff states as follows: "A stakeholder meeting, specifically intended for RV Park owners, was cancelled upon receiving no responses.*
However, at a recent meeting of the RV Park owners, not one property owner acknowledged being contacted by staff in connection with such a meeting. Apparently, a
the same is true with respect to the so-called "2018 RV Park Study" (Attachment G to the
staff report), although one park owner had some recollection of discussions with planning
staff around that same time.

Since only seven RV Parks are identified in the 2018 RV Park Study, it would have been reasonable to expect that staff would reach out to all of the affected property owners directly to solicit input from people in the industry prior to proposing zoning changes that would have such a draconian effect on the relevant businesses and properties. And, even if there had been such efforts to contact property owners three years ago, the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has changed business dynamics since that time, especially in the
tourist industry. In any event, staff acknowledges that it only recently prepared and
circulated proposed drafts for review and consideration, so comments from three years
ago would have been made without knowledge of the final proposals or any ability to
have input in the draft document.

Despite not receiving input from most, if not all, of the affected property owners, the 2018 RV Park Study contains statements that it claims were made by owners of affected
RV parks. However, those statements are not attributed to any specific person or park.
For this reason, the assertions must be disregarded as entirely unreliable and unverifiable,
and, in any event, would not be meaningful about any park other than the one whose
(unidentified) owner had personal knowledge. This is important because some of the
relevant statements attributed to unnamed park owners are untrue and misleading, with respect to TTMH. For example, 2018 RV Park Study, states on Page 8 as follows: 8

Based on interviews with RV Park operators in the County, it was established
that RV Parks in rural areas have been serving two distinct functions: 1) RV
parks for recreational use; 2) RV parks for affordable housing/farmworker
housing. ...Taking examples of existing privately-operated RV Parks in the
County and based on site visits and discussions with the operators, one-third
(⅓) or more of the RV Park population is made up of residents staying for

Exhibit E - 120

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 5

a duration of over one year The privately-owned RV Parks in the
unincorporated rural County, while envisioned by the General Plan for short-
term tourist/traveler need, do not have the same level of tourist demand to
substantiate short-term stay requirements. [Emphasis added]

TTMH is fortunate to have been successful enough that it desires to expand its operations capacity to be able to serve even MORE of the vacationing public not less.3 Additionally, even if, as stated in the report, one-third (⅓) of the overall RV park population in the
county are long term occupants/residents, it means that fully two-thirds of the (⅔) of park
occupants are true vacationers consistent with the traditional definition of an RV/Special
Occupancy Park.

3. Elimination of Length of Stay Requirements in RV/Special Occupancy Parks Blurs the
Important Distinction between Special Occupancy Parks and Mobilehome Parks Under
State Law. It is disingenuous to pretend that mobilehome parks do not exist in
unincorporated Santa Clara County by claiming that they are RV Parks, which allow
extended stays. Because, regardless of whether or not they are called Extended Stay
RV Parks, or if the phrase "mobilehome park" is used in the text of the County's zoning
ordinance, mobilehome parks are a permitted use within residential zones in the
county pursuant to Government Code 565852.7, which states, in part, as follows:

Government Code §65852.7.
A mobilehome park, as defined in Section 18214 of the Health and Safety
Code, shall be deemed a permitted land use on all land planned and zoned
for residential land use as designated by the applicable general plan; provided,
however, that a city, county, or a city and county may require a use permit. ...
[Emphasis Added]

1 We note, however, that Page 7 of the 2018 RV Report, does seem to recognize that vacation resort camping can still be a thriving business, when it states as follows:

[T]he County must grant the requested exemption, unless it can demonstrate,
through substantial findings, specific adverse effects due to lack of needful
overnight tourist spaces. These short-term stay needs can typically be
substantiated in areas of high tourist volumes and demand, such as coastal
areas or in or around national/state parks.

Exhibit E - 121

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 6

Health and Safety Code §18214, which is referenced in the excerpt from Government
Code §65852.7 quoted above states, in part, as follows:

Government Code §18214.
(a) "Mobilehome park" is any area or tract of land where two or more lots are rented or leased, held out for rent or lease, or were formerly held out for
rent or lease and later converted to a subdivision, cooperative, condominium,
or other form of resident ownership, to accommodate manufactured homes,
mobilehomes, or recreational vehicles used for human habitation.
[Emphasis Added]

And, finally, the word "lot", which is used in Health and Safety Code §18214 quoted
above, is, itself, defined in Health and Safety Code §18210, which states, in its entirety,
as follows:

Health and Safety Code §18210.
"Lot" means any area or tract of land or portion of a mobilehome park
designated or used for the occupancy of one manufactured home,
mobilehome, or recreational vehicle. [Emphasis Added]

Accordingly, mobilehome parks are a permitted use in residential zones in the County and any tract of land that rents or leases recreational vehicle sites for more than short term
use meets the statutory definition of mobilehome park. It is also worth noting that
a mobilehome park may contain a Special Occupancy Park within its boundaries. Notwithstanding the clear language of Government Code §65852.7, on Page 14 of the
2018 RV Park Study attached to the staff report, it states the following: "Mobile home
parks, or multi-family housing is not envisioned for the unincorporated County and is considered better-suited for the cities." This can only be interpreted as a clear intention
on the part of the county to violate the express requirements of Government Code
565852.7 that mobilehome parks are a permitted land use. However, rather than
recommend that the county's zoning code be brought into compliance with applicable
state laws by permitting mobilehome parks, staff is, instead, recommending that the
zoning code be amended to allow "Extended Stay RV/Special Occupancy Parks" in a few
very small roadside locations.

2 See Health and Safety Code 518862.39(a).

Exhibit E - 122

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 7

Unfortunately, while trying to solve the housing issue by changing the law to allow long
term stays in urban park locations, staff is simultaneously proposing that all rural parks,
be downzoned to legal non-conforming status. What is not clear is why staff believes that it would be in the best interest of the residents of Santa Clara County to do so. This type
of industry and land use is unrelated to the housing issue, and the vast majority of businesses in the industry have carefully abided existing law and operated within the
parameters of their specific use permits. There is no reason to eliminate jobs, sacrifice
tax dollars, harm merchants who count on tourist dollars, punish innocent business
owners and land owners by depriving them of their livelihoods, and deny the multitude
of RV travelers nationwide the opportunity to come to Santa Clara County, while at the
same time effectively rewarding those few park owners who operated in their businesses
in violation of their applicable use permits by allowing extended stays without a lawful a
right to do so.

4. The Proposed Amendments are One or More Projects as Defined in CEQA, which will
Result in Unavoidable Significant Environmental Impact and Therefore Require
Environmental Review. CEQA requires "projects" to undergo environmental review
before adoption. The definition of "project" expressly includes modifications to general
plans and zoning amendments. The relevant language is in 14 CCR 515378 and §15358,
which state, in relevant part, as follows:

14 CCR §15378.
(a) "Project" means the whole of an action, which has a potential for resulting
in either a direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably
foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment, and that is any of
the following:
(1) An activity directly undertaken by any public agency including but not limited to public works construction and related activities clearing or
grading of land, improvements to existing public structures, enactment and
amendment of zoning ordinances, and the adoption and amendment of
local General Plans or elements thereof pursuant to Government Code
Sections 65100-65700... . [Emphasis Added]

Exhibit E - 123

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 8

14 CCR §15358,
(a) Effects include: Indirect or secondary effects may include growth-
inducing effects and other effects related to induced changes in the pattern of
land use, population density, or growth rate, and related effects on air and
water and other natural systems, including ecosystems. [Emphasis
Added]

Staff claims that the proposed ordinances are categorically exempt from environmental
review under the "Common Sense" exception found in 14 CCR §15061, which provides as
follows:

"... (b) is A project is exempt from CEQA if: . .. (3) The activity is covered by the
common sense exemption that CEQA applies only to projects which have the
potential for causing a significant effect on the environment. Where it can be
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may
have a significant effect on the environment, the activity is not subject to
CEQA."

On Page of the staff report, staff states as follows: "The proposed Categorical Exemption
was prepared in accordance with applicable laws and reflects the County's independent
judgment, taking into account public comment and testimony." However,

After a thorough review of the staff report and the attachments, we were
unable to locate or identify public comments or testimony of any nature -
let alone relating to environmental review; and

The "Common Sense" exemption from CEQA is NOT a categorical
exemption. As noted above, the "common sense" exemption is set forth in
Section 15061 of the CEQA Regulations; however, the categorical exemptions are listed in Sections 15300 thru 15333 of the CEQA
Regulations.

On Page of the staff report, staff further states, without attribution, as follows:

Since the proposed amendments would further limit where RV Parks can be
established, it can be seen with certainty that the proposed amendments,
which provide greater restrictions on the siting of RV parks than the current

Exhibit E - 124

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 9

General Plan and Zoning Ordinance, would not result in significant effect on
the environment.

In other words, staff has turned the clear text of the California Environmental Quality Act
completely on its ear by claiming that zoning law can impose any restrictions on land use without causing an environmental impact. This directly contradicts the plain language of Section 15378 of the Regulations quoted above, which state that the proposed imposition
of general plan land use and zoning restrictions ARE EXPRESSLY subject to environmental
review and further that such changes are neither statutorily nor categorically exempt.
While we do not dispute that, perhaps, in some as yet undetermined set of facts, the proposal to impose unnecessary (and draconian) land use restrictions could potentially
not cause a significant environmental impact or else satisfy the requirements for the
"common sense" exemption, that cannot possibly be the case in the case of proposals
that will, if adopted, change travel, traffic, recreation, and population densities county-
wide, and adversely affect hundreds of thousands of individuals for generations to come.
Staff's proposal to amend the County's General Plan and Zoning Code is not exempt from is
environmental review under CEQA. Quite the contrary, staff's proposal requires a full
countywide Environmental Impact Report to assess all of the likely adverse environmental
(as well as health and safety) consequences that would result if the proposals were to be
enacted into law.

It goes without saying that if a family is on vacation, they are not intending to permanently reside at their destination. Obviously, different industries require different types of
permits. It is unreasonable and unjust to attempt to conflate mobilehome parks with
Special Occupancy Parks after the state legislature so carefully separated the two types of businesses almost twenty years ago, Mobilehome (long term stay) parks and Special Occupancy (short term stay) Parks should be treated differently under the zoning law as
was obviously the intention of the state legislature when it created the separate sets of
laws and regulations.

At this point we ask that the Planning Commission defer any immediate decisions on these
matters, and direct staff to conduct meaningful workshops and meetings with
stakeholders, especially innocent business owners and property owners, who stand to
lose their very livelihoods, and tourists, who will lose prime vacation destinations, all due
to this unnecessary attempt by staff to circumvent the state mobilehome law.

Exhibit E - 125

Honorable Members of the Santa Clara County Planning Comission
March 24, 2021
Page 10

Alternatively, may we respectfully suggest that the Planning Commission recommend to
Board of Supervisors that ALL presently permitted RV Parks and all parcels subject to
relevant pending land use applications on the date of the Planning Commission meeting
(whether or not such applications have been deemed complete by the planning department) be re-zoned to RS or that another compatible zone be created (upon the
request of their respective owners) in order to allow the limited number of affected
businesses referenced in the staff report to continue to operate as they have in the past.

Very truly yours, Alandelt177
J. Randall Toch
Attorney at Law and Real Estate Broker
Attorney for Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc.

CC: Mr. Jeff Kimes, Regional Vice President

Exhibit E 126

EXHIBIT F

Exhibit F - 127

Winston Stromberg 355 South Grand Avenue, Suite 100
Direct Dial: 213-891-8983 Los Angeles, California 90071-1560
winston.stromberg@lw.com Tel: +1.213.485.1234 Fax: +1.213.891.8763
www.lw.com

LATHAM&WATKINSLLP FIRM / AFFILIATE OFFICES
Beijing Moscow
Boston Munich
Brussels New York
Century City Orange County
Chicago Paris
May 24, 2021 Dubai Riyadh
Düsseldorf San Diego
Frankfurt San Francisco

VIA EMAIL (BoardOperations@cob.sccgov.org) Hamburg Seoul
Hong Kong Shanghai
Houston Silicon Valley
Mr. Mike Wasserman, President London Singapore

County of Santa Clara Board of Supervisors Los Angeles Tokyo
Madrid
70 West Hedding Street Washington, D.C.
Milan
East Wing, 10th Floor
San Jose, CA 95110

Re: May 25, 2021. Board of Supervisors Meeting. Agenda Item 9: Proposed RV Park
General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments
Dear Board President Wasserman and Honorable Supervisors:
We write on behalf of our client Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. ("ELS"), the owner and operator of Thousand Trails Morgan Hill ("TTMH") RV Resort. TTHM is a 66-acre RV
campground with over 300 sites located in unincorporated Santa Clara County on County
Highway G8 near the junction of Watsonville Road and Uvas Road.

The County Planning Commission has recommended that this Board adopt amendments to the County's General Plan and Zoning Ordinance (the "Proposed Amendments") that would significantly reduce the areas within the unincorporated County where recreational vehicle ("RV") parks could be established and/or expanded.
As described in detail in previous correspondence to the County from J. Randall Toch dated March 24 and May 21, ELS has numerous concerns with the Proposed Amendments as
currently drafted and urges the Board to reevaluate these significant policy issues before adopting any land use and regulatory changes applicable to RV parks in the County. Those concerns are incorporated into this letter by reference.
But the issues raised in Mr. Toch's correspondence are not ELS' only concerns with the Proposed Amendments. The Board Report and Exhibit C thereto (titled "Statement of Exemption from the California Environmental Quality Act") assert that the Proposed Amendments do not require environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") because they are subject to the "common sense" exemption, which applies "[w]here it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may
have a significant effect on the environment." (CEQA Guidelines, § 15061(b)(3).)

Exhibit F 128

Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors May 24, 2021
Page 2

LATHAM&WATKINSLP

This is an incorrect statement of the law and a fatal flaw of the Proposed Amendments. The "common sense" exemption does not apply. Should the Board adopt the Proposed Amendments by relying on the "common sense" exemption as its CEQA clearance, the County will be acting in violation of CEQA. As demonstrated herein, it cannot be said "with certainty" that the Proposed Amendments will not have a potentially significant effect on the environment. Accordingly, ELS urges the County to reject Planning staff's proposal to use this exemption as CEQA clearance for the Proposed Amendments, and instead conduct a real environmental review that assesses the potential environmental impacts of the amendments and adopts any
necessary mitigation measures to reduce potentially significant impacts. Failure to do so will result in violations of CEQA that will make unlawful the proposed actions by the Board of Supervisors and that may need to be redressed through judicial action.

A. The County's Assertion of the "Common Sense" Exemption Violates CEQA
The basic purposes of CEQA are to inform decision-makers and the public about the potential environmental impacts of governmental actions, identify ways that environmental impacts can be reduced or avoided, and disclose to the public the reasons why an agency approved an action despite the potential for environmental impacts. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15002(a).) When evaluating an action, the lead agency must determine if the action constitutes a "project" pursuant to CEQA and therefore requires additional review. (ld., § 15060.) The CEQA guidelines specifically list the "amendment of zoning ordinances" and the "amendment of local General Plans" as examples of "projects." (ld., § 15378.)

Once a local agency determines that a project is subject to CEQA, it then must determine whether that project is exempt from CEQA. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15061.) Most statutory and categorical exemptions are specific in nature, but to address the extremely rare occurrence of a potential situation in which specific exemptions do not apply to a project, the CEQA Guidelines contain a "catch-all" exemption- -the "common sense" exemption- that might potentially apply to a project if the project cannot possibly result in any environmental impact. (Id., § 15061(b)(3).) A CEQA lead agency can only assert the common sense exemption when there is certainty that an action will not result in impacts to the environment.'
A lead agency asserting the common sense exception has the burden of demonstrating that it applies to a particular action. (Muzzy Ranch v. Solano County Airport Land Use Com. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 372, 386; Davidon Homes v. City of San Jose (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 106, 114.) Where a lead agency's use of the "common sense" exemption is challenged, the agency has duty to provide factual support for its determination that the exemption applies. (Davidon Homes, 54 Cal.App.4th at 117.) Specifically, when legitimate questions are raised about the possibility of an action resulting in environmental impacts, the lead agency "ha[s] the burden to

The CEQA Guidelines state at Section 15061(b)(3), in pertinent part, as follows: "The activity is covered by the common-sense exemption that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential for causing a significant effect on the environment. Where it can be seen with
certainty that there is no possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on
the environment, the activity is not subject to CEQA." (Emphasis added.)

US-DOCS\124139199.2 Exhibit F 129

Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors May 24, 2021
Page

LATHAM&WATKINSLP

elucidate the facts that justified its invocation of CEQA's common sense exemption." (Muzzy Ranch, 41 Cal.4th at 387; see also https://www.dictionary.com/browse/certain[defining "certain" as "free from doubt or reservation" or "established as true or sure; unquestionable; indisputable."].)

Here, the County asserts that the Proposed Amendments are exempt from CEQA under the common sense exemption and therefore no analysis of the potential impacts associated with the Proposed Amendments is required. County staff, in asserting the common sense exemption, note that the Proposed Amendments are not subject to CEQA because they "will not result in a new physical change to the environment" and because "the proposed amendments would further limit where RV Parks can be established, it can be seen with certainty that the proposed amendments would not result in a significant effect on the environment." (Draft Statement of Exemption, p. 2.) These statements are repeated in the Board Report, without any additional analysis or citations to record evidence to support these conclusions. (Board Report, p. 6.)
County Planning staff's claim (and the Planning Commission's recommendation) that the
common sense exemption applies in this instance is wrong. Adoption of the Proposed Amendments does have the possibility of resulting in significant effects on the environment. As described in further detail below, there is substantial evidence that adoption of the Proposed Amendments might result in reasonably foreseeable physical changes that could result in significant environmental impacts. Thus, the County has duty to conduct a more rigorous environmental review of the Proposed Amendments. Absent such review, the County would violate CEQA by abdicating its responsibility to disclose, analyze, and mitigate any potential environmental impacts.

B. The Proposed Amendments Could Result in Environmental Impacts
Because the Proposed Amendments would change the zones in which RV parks can be sited, and there are existing RV parks that would become non-conforming uses after the adoption of the Proposed Amendments, it is likely that the adoption of the Amendments will result in direct and indirect physical changes and associated environmental impacts.

1. Redevelopment of Existing RV Parks Could Result in Environmental
Impacts
The amendments would result in existing RV parks in the Hillside, Rural Residential, and other zones becoming nonconforming uses. As a result, pursuant to the a County's zoning code, these RV parks would be prohibited from intensifying or expanding these existing uses. (Zoning Code § 4.50.020(A).) The County's zoning code allows for modification of the use, so long as it is lesser in intensity and impacts. (Zoning Code § 4.50.020(B).)
Alternatively, the properties can be repurposed for uses that are allowed by the
underlying zone. As the purpose of the regulations limiting the expansion or replacement of nonconforming uses is to incentivize the conversion of the nonconforming use to a conforming use, it is reasonably foreseeable that one or more of the existing RV parks that will become

US-DOCS\24139199.2 Exhibit F - 130

Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors May 24, 2021
Page 4

LATHAM&WATKINSP

a nonconforming as a result of the amendments will at some point be redeveloped with permitted uses. Many of the uses allowed by right in the Hillside, General Use, and Rural Residential
zones are much more intensive than RV parks, including single family residences with accessory units, agricultural processing, and recycling facilities. (Zoning Code Table 2.20-2.), and mobile home parks (Government Code $ 65852.72).
If or when such existing RV parks cease operation, it is more likely than not that the parcels will be redeveloped with one of the uses listed above, some of which do not require any discretionary approvals. Thus, there would be no required CEQA review of an application to redevelop an existing RV park with one of these more intensive uses. (CEQA Guidelines § 15268.) Nevertheless, the conversion of an RV park to a residential community or agricultural processing facility represents an intensification of the use and could result in environmental impacts.

Specifically, converting an RV park to a single family residential subdivision would
require the construction of additional permanent structures, requiring the installation or expansion of utilities, the transportation of building materials to the site, use of construction equipment to build the new structures. This construction could result in impacts related to air quality, greenhouse gas emissions, biological resources, hydrology and water quality, noise, transportation/traffic, and tribal cultural resources. Once completed, the housing development would be filled with permanent residents, who would commute to and from their homes and
would require public services, including police and fire protection, schools, libraries, and parks and recreational facilities. Thus, establishment of a new housing development on the site of an existing RV park could result in significant operational impacts in one or more of these areas.
Similarly, if an existing RV park was redeveloped with an agricultural processing facility, that conversion could result in significant impacts associated with transporting product to and from the site, the use and transportation of hazardous materials or waste, and the facility's water and
energy use.

Each of these scenarios would result in physical changes to the environment with the potential to result in significant environmental impacts. Staff has ignored these reasonably foreseeable possibilities in asserting that the common sense exemption applies. Thus, the County's assertion that the common sense exemption applies to the Proposed Amendments is erroneous; reasonably foreseeable physical changes could result in potentially significant impacts to the environment.

2 Government Code Section 65852.7 states, in pertinent part, as follows: "A mobilehome park, as defined in Section 18214 of the Health and Safety Code, shall be deemed a permitted land use on all land planned and zoned for residential land use as designated by the applicable general
plan. . ..'

US-DOCS\124139199.2 Exhibit F - 131

Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors May 24, 2021
Page 5

LATHAM&WATKINSLP

2. The Proposed Amendments Conflict with Existing Land Use Policies, Which Must be Analyzed Consistent with CEQA
The County's General Plan notes that "recreational vehicle (RV) parks are provided almost exclusively by the private sector" and notes that "[p]rovision of these and other such private recreational facilities should be encouraged in the appropriate locations." (County General Plan, pp. G-8, N-9 [emphasis added].) Further, General Plan Policies C-PR 17 and R- PR 19 state that the "private sector and non-profit organizations should be encouraged to provide outdoor recreational opportunities," including RV parks. (Id.) The Proposed Amendments, which would severely limit the areas available to site RV parks, are seemingly at odds with these General Plan policies, which the County does not propose to change.
The General Plan also discusses recreational uses in the context of the County's
economic well-being, including strategies to improving quality of life to support economic goals and maintain a favorable business climate. Specifically, the General Plan focuses on retaining businesses and workers with General Plan Policy C-EC 8 stating that the County "should work to maintain and improve overall quality of life" by "providing a diversity of cultural and recreational opportunities." (General Plan, p. C-10.) Further, General Plan Policy C-EC 7 notes that "[t]he potential impacts on businesses of all sizes should be considered in developing local government plans, policies, regulations, approval processes, and fees." (General Plan, p. C-9.) It is unclear to what extent, if any, that staff considered the potential impacts to existing businesses when developing the Proposed Amendments.
Staff's analysis of the Proposed Amendments focuses on their consistency with General Plan Policy R-LU 82, which relates to the siting of roadside services, but fails to discuss the
policies above which expressly encourage the private provision of RV parks. The fact that the amendments' limitation on the siting of RV parks would be consistent with Policy R-LU 83 does not change the fact that the amendments would be inconsistent with Policies C-PR 17 and R-PR 19. Similarly, it is unclear how the Proposed Amendments, which would significantly reduce the space available for recreational RV parks, are consistent with General Plan Policy C-EC 8's call to provide a variety of recreational opportunities throughout the County. CEQA requires that the County analyze any potential inconsistencies with adopted land use plans that could result in significant environmental impacts. (CEQA Appendix G, § X; see also CEQA Guidelines, § 15125(d).) As noted above, the Proposed Amendments could result in significant environmental impacts. As such, the County's assertion that the Proposed Amendments are exempt under the
common sense exemption is erroneous.

3. Concentrating RV Parks in the Roadside Services Zone Could Result in
Significant Environmental Impacts
The California Air Resources Board-the expert state agency charged with protecting the public from the harmful effects of air pollutionhas acknowledged that siting sensitive land
uses near freeways or heavily-travelled roadways results in public exposure to air pollution and associated health impacts. (See California Air Resources Board - Air Quality and Land Use

US-DOCS\124139199.2 Exhibit F - 132

Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors May 24, 2021
Page 6

LATHAM&WATKINSLP

Handbook: A Community Health Perspective (April 2005).)' Guests at RV parks often spend a good deal of their stay outdoors, as many travelers do when camping. Thus, RV parks are sensitive uses similar to residences and schools and should not be encouraged in areas adjacent to roadways, including parcels within the Roadside Services zone.
The Proposed Amendments have the potential to expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollution concentrations, resulting in potentially significant health risks to individuals.
Accordingly, the potential air quality impacts of the Proposed Amendments should be further analyzed by the County. The County's failure to acknowledge such potential impacts dooms its claim that that it is "certain" that no environmental impacts would occur as a result of the Proposed Amendments. The County simply cannot utilize the common sense exemption to avoid CEQA review of the Proposed Amendments.

Although staff claims that the Proposed Amendments will not result in any environmental impacts, that position is not supported by any supporting evidence or defensible rationale. The County would be side-stepping its CEQA responsibilities by attempting to assert the common
sense exemption as means to adopt the Proposed Amendments. As described herein, the Proposed Amendments can and will result in reasonably foreseeable physical changes that could cause significant environmental impacts within the County. As such, the County has a duty to analyze these potential impacts and disclose this information to the public before adopting the Proposed Amendments.
We strongly urge the County to reconsider its use of the common sense exemption when considering the Proposed Amendments. Failure to do may force ELS and/or other beneficially interested parties to seek judicial recourse against the County.

Very truly yours,
Cto Sarg Winston P. Stromberg
of LATHAM & WATKINS LLP

ce: Jeff Kimes, Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. Rita DeBoer, Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc.
J. Randall Toch, Attorney for Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. Lauren Glaser, Latham & Watkins LLP

3 https://ww3.arb.ca.gov/ch/handbook.pdf.

US-DOCS.124139199.2 Exhibit F - 133

EXHIBIT G

Exhibit G - 134

Winston P. Stromberg 355 South Grand Avenue, Suite 100
Direct Dial: +1.213.485.1234 Los Angeles, California 90071-1560
winston.stromber@Iw.com Tel: +1.213.485.1234 Fax: +1.213.891.8763
www.lw.com

LATHAM&WATKINSLLP FIRM / AFFILIATE OFFICES
Beijing Moscow
Boston Munich
Brussels New York
Century City Orange County
Chicago Paris
July 1, 2021 Dubai Riyadh
Düsseldorf San Diego
Frankfurt San Francisco
Hamburg Seoul
Hong Kong Shanghai VIA U.S. MAIL Houston Silicon Valley
London Singapore
CEQA Coordinator Los Angeles Tokyo
Office of the Attorney General Madrid Washington, D.C.
Environment Section Milan

1300 "T" Street
Sacramento, CA 95814-2919

Re: Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. v. County of Santa Clara et. al.:
Challenge to the County of Santa Clara's Exemption from Environmental
Review under the California Environmental Quality Act of Changes to Its
General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Regarding Recreational Vehicle Parks

Dear Honorable Attorney General Bonta:
Pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.7 and Code of Civil Procedure section
388, enclosed is a copy of the Petition for Writ of Mandate filed to challenge the County of Santa Clara and Santa Clara Board of Supervisors' failure to comply with the California Environmental Quality Act in asserting the common sense exemption to environmental review of their amendments to the County's General Plan and Zoning Ordinance concerning recreational vehicle
parks.

Should you have any questions, please feel free to contract me at (213) 891-8983 or
winston.stromberg@lw.com.

Very truly yours,
Cto Stag Winston P. Stromberg
of LATHAM & WATKINS LLP

Enclosure

US-DOCS\124963122.1 Exhibit G - 135

EXHIBIT H

Exhibit H - 136

Winston P. Stromberg 355 South Grand Avenue, Suite 100
Direct Dial: +1.213.891.8983 Los Angeles, California 90071-1560
winston.stromberg@lw.com Tel: +1.213.485.1234 Fax: +1.213.891.8763
www.lw.com

LATHAM&WATKINSLLP FIRM / AFFILIATE OFFICES
Beijing Moscow
Boston Munich
Brussels New York
Century City Orange County
Chicago Paris
July 1, 2021 Dubai Riyadh
Düsseldorf San Diego
Frankfurt San Francisco

VIA U.S. MAIL Hamburg Seoul
Hong Kong Shanghai
Houston Silicon Valley
Regina Alcomendras, Clerk-Recorder London Singapore
County of Santa Clara Los Angeles Tokyo
70 West Hedding Street, East Wing, 1 st Floor Madrid Washington, D.C.
Milan
San Jose, CA 95110

Re: Notice of Commencement of Action to Challenge Santa Clara County's Claim that Amendments to Its General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Regarding Recreational Vehicle Parks are Exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act

Dear Ms. Alcomendras:

Pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.5, please take notice that Equity Lifestyle Properties, Inc. intends to file a petition for writ of mandate against Santa Clara County and the County Board of Supervisors (collectively, the "County") challenging the County's approval of amendments to the County's General Plan and Zoning Ordinance regarding recreational vehicle parks (Ordinance No. NS-1200.378 and Resolution No. BOS-2021-63), pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act. This petition will be filed in the County
of Santa Clara Superior Court on July 1, 2021.

Very truly yours, Cto Sag Winston P. Stromberg
of LATHAM & WATKINS LLP

Exhibit H - 137

VERIFICATION 1

2 Thave read the foregoing Verification and know its contents.

3 Iam a party to this action. The matters stated in it are true of my own knowledge except as to those matters which are stated on information and belief, and as to
WDNc those matters I believe them to be true.

x Iam an officer of Equit y Lifestyle Properties, Inc., a party to this action, and am authorized to make this verification for and on its behalf, and I make this verification for that reason. Ihave read the foregoing document(s). Iam informed and believe and on that ground allege that the matters stated in it are true.
Iam one of the attorneys for a party to this action. Such party is . absent from the Counties of Los Angeles, Orange, San Francisco, San Mateo and San Diego, California, where such attorneys have their offices, and I make this verification
9 for and on behalf of that party for that reason. Ihave read the foregoing document(s). Iam informed and believe that on that ground allege that the matters 10 stated in it are true.

11 Executed on the 1st day of July, 2021 at Capitola, California.
12 Ideclare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is
13 true and correct.

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28
Latham & Watkins US-DOCS 124957700.1
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
LOS ANGELES
138

Winston P. Stromberg 355 South Grand Avenue, Suite 100
Direct Dial: +1.213.485.1234 Los Angeles, California 90071-1560
winston.stromber@lw.com Tel: +1.213.485.1234 Fax: +1.213.891.8763
www.lw.com

LATHAM&WATKINSLP FIRM / AFFILIATE OFFICES
Beijing Moscow
Boston Munich
Brussels New York
Century City Orange County
Chicago Paris
July 1, 2021 Dubai Riyadh
Düsseldorf San Diego
Frankfurt San Francisco
Hamburg Seoul
Hong Kong Shanghai VIA U.S. MAIL Houston Silicon Valley
London Singapore
CEQA Coordinator Los Angeles Tokyo
Office of the Attorney General Madrid Washington, D.C.
Environment Section Milan

1300 "I" Street
Sacramento, CA 95814-2919

Re: Eguity Lifestyle Properties. Inc. v. County of Santa Clara et. al.:
Challenge to the County of Santa Clara's Exemption from Environmental
Review under the California Environmental Quality Act of Changes to Its
General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Regarding Recreational Vehicle Parks
Dear Honorable Attorney General Bonta:
Pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.7 and Code of Civil Procedure section 388, enclosed is a copy of the Petition for Writ of Mandate filed to challenge the County of Santa Clara and Santa Clara Board of Supervisors' failure to comply with the California Environmental Quality Act in asserting the common sense exemption to environmental review of their amendments to the County's General Plan and Zoning Ordinance concerning recreational vehicle parks.

Should you have any questions, please feel free to contract me at (213) 891-8983 or
winston.stromberg@lw.com.

Very truly yours,
Cts Stag Winston P Stromberg
of LATHAM & WATKINS LLP

Enclosure

US-DOCS\124963122.1

301490 0AMINYUOYS 1O1LSOC 30 IN3WI8VJ3G 88 :l1Nd 9-7r 1ZOZ 1V 83N39 A3NMOLLV 33A3038