1 LAW OFFICES OF MATT H. MORRIS

2 MATT H. MORRIS, ESQ. - STATE BAR NO. 132056
47-040 WASHINGTON STREET, SUITE 3201
3 LA QUINTA, CALIFORNIA 92253
TELEPHONE: 760.777.7941/FACSIMILE: 760.777.8533
4
Attorney for Petitioners Lynn Kincaid, et al.
5

6 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA

7 COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE - PALM SPRINGS

8

9 LYNN KINCAID, an Individual, and SAMUEL Case No. KYLE, an Individual
10 VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF Petitioners, MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR
11 INJUNCTIVE AND DECLARATORY
V. RELIEF
12 CITY OF INDIO, a Municipal Corporation; and 1. California Environmental Quality Act
13 the CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF INDIO, and DOES 1 through 20 inclusive, ("CEQA") Public Resources Code Section 21000, et seq.;
14 Respondents. 2. Code of Civil Procedure $ 1094.5
15 3. Government Code Section 65906 and Indio
16 GHA Companies, an Entity of Unknown Origin, and Kraemer Land Company, Inc., a Municipal Code Section 159.786

17 California Corporation,

18 Real Parties in Interest.

19

20 Plaintiffs and Petitioners, Lynn Kincaid and Samuel Kyle ("Petitioners") allege against the

21 City of Indio ("Indio") and the City Council of the City of Indio (the "City Council"), with the City

22 and City Council being collectively referred to as "Respondents" or the "City", as follows:

23 INTRODUCTION

24 1. This action challenges the decisions by the City in connection with the approval for a

25 project called the "Ventana Specific Plan Project Case Nos.: Environmental Assessment 20-05-547,
26 General Plan Amendment 20-05-120, Specific Plan 20-05-39, Tentative Tract Map 37884, Design

27 Review 20-05-473" (the "Project"). The project entails the construction of residential housing
28 involving one hundred and three a (103) units on a total of approximately forty-five (45) acres of land

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS 1
8-9-21 Complainl. wpd

T

LA located generally between Jefferson Street and Madison Street on Avenue 50 in the City of Indio,
2 Riverside County, California

2. Petitioners challenge the City's action in adopting the Resolutions approving the
4 Project and adopt the Project Environmental Impact Report (all of the foregoing are referred to as the

5 "Project Approvals").

6 3. Petitioners allege that the City's actions in granting the Project Approvals violates
7 provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources-Code Section 21000, et.

8 seq. ("CEQA").

Q PARTIES

10 4. Petitioners include residents and property owners in the City of Indio and persons
11  entities that have participated in the public hearing process regarding the proposed Project. or

12 Petitioners advocate for quality of life issues for the citizens and visitors of the City of Indio and
13 these members are opposed to the City-facilitated development of the Project. The Petitioners seek
14 to promote and support developments in the City of Indio that balance the needs for growth while
15 preserving the elements of livability in our cities.
16 5. Petitioners have a substantial interest in ensuring that the City's decisions are in
17 conformity with the requirements of law, and in having those requirements properly executed and the
18 | public duties of the City enforced. Petitioners will be substantially and adversely affected by impacts
19 resulting from the City's action and approvals described in this petition, and Petitioners are
20  aggrieved by the acts,
21 decisions and omissions of the City as alleged in this petition. Petitioners are
suing on their own behalf and on the behalf of others who will be affected in the City of Indio and
22 | surrounding areas,
23 as well as on behalf of the citizens of the City of Indio.

6.

24 Respondent, City of Indio is duly organized under the laws of the State of California.

25 The City of Indio and/or the Planning Commission of the City of Indio is the lead agency under

26 CEQA for evaluating the environmental impacts of the Project.
7.

27 Petitioners are informed and believe, and on that basis allege, that Respondent, City

28 Council of the City of Indio, is the elected governing body of Indio and is the body responsible for

LAW OFFICES OF promulgating general and specific plans, tract maps, design review, municipal ordinances,

MATT H. MORRIS
8-9-21 Complaint.wpd 2

1 | resolutions and policies.

2 8. Petitioners are informed and believe, and on that basis allege, that the Real Parties in
3 Interest, GHA Companies and Kraemer Land Company, Inc., (the "Developers") are the owners of

4. (or have the right to purchase) the real property that is the subject of the Project. The Developers are
5 named as a Real Party pursuant to the requirements of Public Resources Code Section 21167.6.5,
6 subdivision (a).

7 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

8 9. This court has jurisdiction to consider CEQA claims under Public Resources Code
9 Section 21168.5. This Court has jurisdiction to issues writs of mandate pursuant to Code of Civil
10 Procedure Section 1094.5.

11 10. The Respondent, City of Indio, is located in Riverside County. Venue is proper in the
12 County of Riverside pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 394, subdivision (a).
13 11. Petitioners have a direct and beneficial interest in the granting of this writ of mandate,
14 as well as the requested injunctive relief. Petitioners have appeared at the public hearings held in
15 connection with granting the Approvals, and Petitioners have objected to the approval of the Project
16| prior to the City's adoption of the Approvals.
17 12. The City and City Council made various land use and CEQA approvals, including the
18 Project Approvals.
19 13. Petitioners and other interested parties and individuals made oral and written
20 comments and objections on the Project Approvals and raised each of the legal deficiencies asserted
21 in this petition.
22 14. Petitioners have exhausted all available administrative remedies before Respondent,
23 the City, by objecting to the approval of the Project, as required by the provisions of Public
24 Resources Code Section 21177.
25 15. Petitioners have performed all conditions imposed by law precedent to the filing of
26 this petition, including without limitation, by mailing (and sending via email) on August 9, 2021, a
27 notice to the City that this action would be filed. A copy of the "Intent to Sue" letter is attached to
28 | this Petition as Exhibit "A".

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS
8-9-21 Complaint .wod

1 16. Petitioners will also serve a copy of this Petition on the California Attorney General

2 as required by law.

3 17. Petitioners hereby notify Respondent, the City, to prepare a complete record of

4. Respondents' proceedings relating to this action, subject to all rights and procedures for Petitioners

5 CO elect to prepare, itself, the administrative record in this matter after Petitioner receives and reviews

6 Respondents' Preliminary Notification and cost estimate.

7 18. Petitioners have no adequate remedy at law unless this Court grants the requested
8 writ of mandate and thereby orders the City to set aside the Approval of the Project. In the absence
9 of such remedy, (a) the Project Approvals will remain in effect, in violation of State environmental
10  laws and planning laws; (b) the Project, lacking adequate environmental review, will be in violation
11 of CEQA; and (c) Petitioners and members of the public in the community in which the Project
12 would be developed will suffer irreparable harm.

13 19. There is a significant probability that Petitioners will prevail on the merits in this
14 matter. The Court should issue a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction and permanent
15 injunction ordering Respondents to suspend all activities implementing the Project (including
16 without limitation proceeding or granting any permits for the development of the Project) until the
17 Court, by way of return writ, adjudicates that the City has fully complied with all requirements of the
18 California Environmental Quality Act.
19 FACTS
20 20. The Project entails the construction of 103 residential houses on a total of a
21 approximately 45 acres of land located generally on Avenue 50.between Jefferson Street and
22 | Madison Street in the City of Indio.
23 21. On or about June 23, 2021, the Planning Commission of the City held a public
24 hearing to consider the Project. During the hearing, the Planning Commission heard from concerned
25 members of the public with regard to environmental issues and other policy matters relating to the
26 Project, and together they raised each of the legal deficiencies asserted in this Petition.
27 22. The Planning Commission adopted the Project Approvals at the June 23, 2021
28 hearing.

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS 4

8-9-21 Complaini.wpd

1 23. The Project required a General Plan Amendment and the matter of approving the

2 Project was scheduled to be heard before the City Council on or about July 21, 2021

3 24. The City staff provided to the City a staff report a in which staff recommended that the

4 City Council approve the Project, and also provided response letters from the Developer, and letters
5 responding to Petitioners' objections and observation appeal.

6 25. Some of the letters containing Petitioner's observations, objections and CEQA
7| complaints, which letters were contained in the staff report and provided to the City Planning
8 Commission and City Council for their review and consideration, are attached hereto as Exhibit "B3

9 and incorporated herein by this reference. These letters and the public comments provided
10 information to the City, and to staff, supported by substantial evidence, explaining Petitioners'
11 arguments that the Project would result in several significant environmental impacts, which were
12 either not considered in the EIR and/or were not adequately mitigated.
13 26. Together with the issues raised at public hearing, these identified impacts included,
14 | but are not limited to, the following: (i) several goals and policies of the City's general plan with
15 which the Project stands in direct conflict; (ii) excessive water demands; (ii) excessive energy
16 demands; (iv) contamination of storm water and sanitary sewer discharge; (v) negative effects on
17 public health; (vi) significant effects on traffic safety; (vii) failure to identify compelling reasons to
18 amend the General Plan; (viii) destruction of important agricultural lands; (ix) destruction of
19 environmentally sensitive habitat for protected animals and plants; and (x) failure to properly allow
20 for requisite emergency exits.
21 27. On or about July 21, 2021, the City Council granted the approved the Project
22 Approvals and certified the EIR.
23 28. Petitioners have performed all conditions imposed by law precedent to filing this
24 action; including complying with the requirement of Public Resource Code Section 21176.5 by
25| mailing notice to the City that this action would be filed. (See, Exhibit "A").
26 29. Petitioners will also serve a copy a of this Petition on the California Attorney General
27 as required by law.
28 ///

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS
8-9-21 Complaint.wpd

1 30. Petitioners have a substantial interest in ensuring that the City's decisions are in
2 conformity with the requirements of law, and in having those requirements properly executed and the
3 public duties of the City enforced. Petitioners and members of the public will be adversely affected

4 by impacts resulting from the City's actions and approvals, and Petitioners and such members of the
5 public are aggrieved by the acts, decisions, and omissions of the City as alleged in this petition and
6 complaint. Petitioners brings this action on its behalf, and on behalf of others who will be affected
7 in the City of Indio, as well as citizens of the City of Indio.

8 31. Petitioners have no plain, speedy or adequate reredy available in the ordinary
9 course of law to redress the claims alleged in this petition. Petitioners and the public generally will
10 suffer irreparable harm if this court does not issue a writ to compel the City to comply with CEQA
11 and to vacate and set aside the above-described approvals related to the Project.
12 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION

13 (Violation of CEQA and CEQA Guidelines; The EIR Does Not Comply with CEQA)
14 32. Petitioner realleges and incorporates herein by reference the allegations in paragraphs
15 1 through 31 inclusive in this Petition.
16 33. CEQA requires a lead agency for project to prepare a Mitigated Negative
17 Declaration (MND) and/or EIR that complies with the requirements of CEQA. The lead agency
18 must provide for public review and comment on the project and related environmental
19 | documentation. An environmental impact report (MND or EIR) must provide sufficient
20 environmental analysis so that decision makers can intelligently consider environmental impacts that
21 a proposed project may create.
22 34. The City's actions in adopting the EIR for the Project constitute a prejudicial abuse of
23 discretion, because the City failed to proceed in the manner required by law and the City failed to
24 support its decision to grant the approvals with substantial evidence. Among other failings by the
25 City, the City:
26 a) Should have prepared, circulated for review and comment and adopted an
27 environmental impact report that analyzed and mitigated all of the significant environmental impacts
28 raised by Petitioners and other members of the public during the public hearings;

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS 6
8-9-21 Complaint.wpd

b) Failed to adequately disciose or analyze the significant environmental impacts that
2 will result from the development of the Project, including but not limited to the environmental

3 impacts including the following: (i) failure of the Project to be consistent with the general plan; (ii)
4 excessive water demands; (iii) excessive energy demands; (iv) contamination of storm water and

5 sanitary sewer discharge; (v) significant impacts on public health, purring significant strain on local
6 medical facilities; (vi) significant impacts on traffic safety; and (vii) failure to identify compelling
7 reasons to amend the General Plan; (viti) destruction of important agricultural lands; (ix) destruction
8 of environmentally sensitive habitat for protected animals and plants; and (x) failure to properly
9 allow for requisite emergency exits. In addition, the City did not adequately study any cumulative
10 impacts, and Petitioners allege that there will be several significant cumulatively impacts by the
11 Project on all of the above identified environmental impacts.
12 c) Improperly deferred the analysis of impacts and the definition of and implementation
13 of mitigation measures;

14 d) Failed to adopt all feasible mitigation measures and failed to adequately mitigate
15 environmental impacts from the development of the Project; and
16 e Failed to adopt legally adequate findings as required by law with regard to the
17 approvals.

18 35. CEQA requires every lead agency to provide a good faith, reasoned analysis in
19 response to comments received on a environmental assessments, to address (in detail)
20| recommendations and objections raised by comments submitted to the lead agency, and to explain
21 why specific comments and objections, especially those of experts, were not accepted by the lead
22 agency. The EIR and prior MND fail to respond adequately to comments made by Petitioners and
23 other members of the public. Morcover, the City Council in approving the Project failed entirely to
24 consider the substantial evidence of significant impacts presented by Petitioners and other concerned
25 members of the community. Indeed, it is believed that the City Council did not ask the Real Parties
26 in Interest any material questions concerning approval of this multimillion dollar Project.
27 36. All of the letters and testimony of Petitioners and other members of the community
28 constitute a fair argument that there is a reasonable probability that the Project will create several

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS 7
8-9-21 Complaint.wpd

1 significant environmental impacts.

2 37. As a result of the City's violations of CEQA, Petitioners and the public have been

3 harmed, because, prior to the City's approval of the Project and adoption by the City of the EIR,
4 Petitioners and other members of the public were not fully informed about the significant
5 environmental impacts that could occur from the development of the Project. Indeed, City Staff
6 made significant errors in addressing the numbers of units allowed by existing zoning, thus creating
7 a fallacious base line for assessing environmental impacts of the entire project.
8 38. Petitioners and members of the public will suffer irreparable harm if the relief
9 requested in this Petition is not granted by this Court, and the Project is constructed in the absence of
10 an environmental assessment for the Project that complies with the applicable provisions of CEQA
11 and other applicable laws.
12 SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION

13 (Violation of CEQA and CEQA Guidelines; Inadequate Findings)
14 39. Petitioners reallege and incorporate herein by reference the allegations in Paragraphs
15 1 through 38 inclusive in this Petition.
16 40. CEQA requires that the findings made by a lead agency in connection with the
17 approval of a project must be supported by substantial evidence in the administrative record. CEQA
18| further requires that a lead agency provide an explanation of how the evidence in the record supports
19 the conclusions it has made.
20 41. The City violated CEQA by adopting findings that are inadequate as a matter of law,
21 because the findings are not supported by substantial evidence in the record, including but not
22 limited to the following:
23 (a) The datermination that certain impacts would be less that significant and/or that the
24 adopted mitigation measures would avoid or lessen the Project's effects on the environment;
25 (b) The determination that the Project is not in conflict with the City's general plans; and
26 (c) The proposed mitigation measures would reduce all identified significant impacts to
27 a level that is less that significant.
28 ///

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS 8
8-9-21 Complaint.wpd

1÷

1 42. As a result of the defects described above, the City prejudicially abused its discretion
2 by adopting findings that do not comply with the requirements of CEQA. Therefore, the City also

3

4 prejudicially abused its discretion by granting approvals for the Project based upon defective and

5 inadequate findings. Accordingly, the City's approval of the Project and its certification of the EIR

must be set aside.

6

7 THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION

8 (Improper Grant of Variances; Violation of Government Code Section 65906 and

9 43. Indio Municipal Code Section 159.786)

10 Petitioners reallege and incorporate herein by reference the allegations in Paragraphs
1 through 42 inclusive in this Petition.
11 44. •t-

Government Code Section 65906 provides that a variance (Specific Plan) shall be
12 granted "when, because of special circumstances applicable to the property, including size, shape,
13 topography, location or surroundings, the strict application of the zoning ordinance deprives such
14 property of privileges enjoyed by other property in the vicinity and under identical zoning
15

16 classification. Any variance granted shall be subject to such conditions as will assure that the

17 adjustment hereby authorized shall not constitute a grant of special privileges inconsistent with the

18 limitations upon other properties in the vicinity and zone in which such property is situated.»

45.

19 Indio Municipal Code Section 159.786 provides that no variance may be granted

20 unless the planning commission for the City finds all of the following:

a.

21 The strict application of the laws would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships;

22 b.

23 Special circumstances apply to the property which do not apply generally to other

24 properties in the same zone and vicinity;

C.

25 The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property

26 d. right or use generally possessed by other property in the same zone and vicinity;

27 The variance will not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare

28 /// or materially injurious to the property or improvements.

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS
8-9-21 Complaint.wpd 9

1 46. The City attempted to defeat the requirements of granting a variance by amending the

2 General Plan. Petitioners are informed and believe, and based thereon alleges, that the City abused

3 its discretion in amending the General Plan and thereafter approving Project variance (Specific Plan)
4 findings and subsequent approvals by the City which were unsupported in fact or in law and do not

5 satisfy the strict requirements of Government Code Section 65906 or Indio Municipal Code to
6 support the variance as a matter of law.

7 47. As a result of the defects described above, the City prejudicially abused its discretion
8 by failing to adopt variance findings that comply with law. Therefore, the City also prejudicially
9 abused its discretion by granting approvals for the Project based upon defective and inadequate
10 variance findings. Accordingly, the City's adoption the Project and all approvals of the Project must
11 be set aside.

12 PRAYER FOR RELIEF

13 WHEREFORE, Petitioners respectfully pray for judgment against the Respondents,
14 and each of them, as follows:
15 1. For a peremptory writ of mandamus directing Respondents, the City of Indio and the
16 City Council, to vacate and set aside the approvals of the Project, the actions adopting the EIR, and
17 all related approvals;
18 2. That this Court issue a writ of mandamus suspending the authority of Respondents,
19 the City of Indio and the City Council, their officers, employees, agents, boards, commissions and
20 other subdivisions, to grant any authority, permits or entitlements as part of the Project (including
21 without limitation to any of the Real Party in Interest) until after the City requires Devcloper to fully
22 analyze all significant environmental impacts from the Project, consistent with the requirements of
23 CEQA, the CEQA Gaidelines, and all other applicable laws, and until a full set of legally adequate
24 findings are made by the City as required by law;
25 3. That this Court issue a temporary restraining order and a permanent injunction
26 enjoining Respondents, the City of Indio and the City Council, their officers, employees, agents,
27 boards, commissions and other subdivisions, as well as the Real Party in Interest, from undertaking
28 any activities, demolition, grading or construction pursuant to the City's approvals as described

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS 10
8-9-21 Complaint.wpd

1

2 herein, prior to the City's full compliance with CEQA, the City's municipal code, and other
applicable law;

3 4.

4 5. For attorney's fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 1021.5;
For costs of suit; and

5 6.

6 For such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.

7 Dated: August 20, 2021

8 LAW OFFICES OF MATT H. MORRIS

9
10 By: Mtafn MATT H. MORRIS, ESQ.

11 Attorney for Petitioners

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23 4.•

24

25

.26

27

28

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS
8-9-21 Complaint.wpd 11

: : •

:

EXHIBIT. "A" •*

1 -+,.p4

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS
47040 Washinglon Street, Suite 3201 La Quinta, California 92253 Matt H. Morris, Fsq. Telephono. 760.777.7941
Facsimile, 760.777.8533
maut@mhmorrislaw.com

August 9, 2021

Sabdi Sanchez, CMC
City Clerk
City of Indio
100 Civic Center Mall
Indio, CA 92201

RE: Ventana Specific Plan Project Case Nos.: Environmental Assessment 20-05-547, General Plan Amendment 20-05-120, Specific Plan 20-05-39, Tentative Tract Map 37884, Design Review 20-05-473

Dear Sabdi Sanchez:

This office represents Lynn Kincaid and Samuel Kyle, among others, ("neighbors") with respect to the above-referenced project.
Please take notice that, under Public Resources Code Section 21167.5, the Neighbors intend. to file a petition, inter alia, under the provisions of California Environmental Quality Act against respondent the. City of Indio in connection with the Project.

Very truly yours,

LAW OFFICES OF MATT H. MORRIS Aufr
MATT H. MORRIS, ESQ.

MHM:dch

cc: ssanchez@indio.org

EXHIBIT "B"

LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS
47040 Washington Street, Suite 3201
La Quinta, California 92253 Matt H. Morris, Esq. Telephone. 760.777.7941
Facsimile. 760.777.8533
matt@mhmorrislaw.com

May 5, 2021

City Planning Commission
C/O Ms. Leila Namvar, Senior Planner
City of Indio
100 Civic Center.Mall
Indio, CA 92201

Dear City Planning Commission and Ms. Namvar:
This firm represents the Kincaid family and the interests of numerous other neighbors and adjoining neighbors of the proposed Ventana project. We previously sent you a letter about this project (attached) when it was proposed it to be adopted with a negative declaration. The issues raised in that letter were not adequately addressed by the developer. Many are still not adequately addressed in the Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR).
The following comments on the Ventana Specific Plan (VSP) and DEIR are being submitted by adjacent residents and who strongly oppose changing the recently adopted City of Indio General Plan land use designation of the approximate 45-acre property from very low-density residential use (Desert Estate Neighborhood) to a proposed land use designation (Transitional Neighborhood) that will allow up to 3 dwelling units (du) per acre. These comments are also submitted after extensive consultation and review with retained environmental specialists.
The VSP appears to be an elaborate effort to assign a "spot" land use designation to accommodate a single individual to the detriment of the existing low density, high quality neighborhood that already exists in the area. There are already many suburban neighborhoods in the City of Indio and the General Plan's objective in establishing the Desert Estate land use designation was to allow a limited amount of land in the City to be set aside for high quality residences on large lots that wish to continue a rural agricultural tradition on their property. The new Indio General Plan was adopted in September 2019, less than two years ago, and removing a substantial portion of one of the nicer neighborhoods in the City for more suburban development is unreasonable. We found the DEIR to be self-serving and not an objective evaluation of potentially significant adverse impacts. Due to certain flaws that we have identified in the document, we highly recommend revising the DEIR and recirculating it to address the identified errors.

General Comments

We carefully reviewed the entire DEIR and did not find a copy of the VSP in the document or appendices and thus were unable verify the statements in the Project Description. Also, a Specific Plan by law must contain details ranging from land use and design guidelines, to infrastructure and funding sources to implement the plan. Without access to the VSP it was not possible to examine each element of the Plan to determine if the information in the DEIR Project Description encompassed the whole of the project. We consider the failure to provide the VSP for public review a fatal flaw in the DEIR that requires correction and recirculation
There is second major error in the DEIR that affects much of the analysis. Throughout this document it has been stated that the current land use designation allows one unit per acre, which the General Plan does. What this whole document ignores is that the maximum number of units
that can be developed under the current zone for the site is about 30 units, not 45. This finding is
based on the fact that the 45-acre site is zoned CEIR-1 and CEIR-2. Under CEIR-2 the maximum
number of units is one unit per two (2) acres, not one acre. The current baseline for evaluation of
potential impacts is not the current General Plan designation, but the actual number of dwelling units that can be constructed under both the General Plan designation and the zone classification for the property. We raised this issue in our original comments for this project and the issue has been ignored. Thus, the delta between the existing number of units that can be constructed and proposed GP is .(135-30) = 105, not 91. Also, the delta between the actual number of units proposed under the VSP & TTM 37884 (103-30) ÷ 73, not 58. All elements of the DEIR that rely upon quantitative evaluation are in error because of this analytical flaw. This is a fatal flaw in the EIR analysis and if the DEIR is not corrected and recirculated, it may lead to a legal challenge. The maximum number of units that could be constructed under the current land use baseline is about
30 units, and all impacts forecast relying on a baseline of 45 units requires reevaluation.
The third major issue of concern is that the project description indicates that the proposed General Plan designation, Transitional Neighborhood, would allow "hospitality" uses, but this topic is never discussed again in the document and certainly what activities are allows is not presented
or discussed. For example, if "hospitality" uses are permitted, this issue requires evaluation at least in the Vehicle Miles Traveled section of Traffic and the Noise section of the DEIR. It appears that this topic was intentionally avoided throughout the DEIR and it must be given full consideration in a re-circulated DEIR.

Specific Comments

p.2.3-4 Are the SRF homes to the north and east one acre in size? They appear larger and many of these lots appear to be several acres. Installing suburban development in place of the currently designated 1- and 2-acre lots creates a harsh transition the
character of the estate neighborhood to the north and east.

p.2.3-10 The analysis of Scenic Vistas portrays the change in views to surrounding mountains internally only for residences to the SE. In the future construction of the residences on the 45-acre site will cause the following adverse changes. The
foreground views to Mountains will be visibly changed by allowing the number of structures disrupting background mountain views (background long distance) to more than double - substantially reducing visual access corridors and quality of
scenic views.

p.2.3-11 Impacts on Scenic Views - statement re: private views not being.subject to CEQA. Actually, they are subject to CEQA review. Specifically, Mira Mar Mobile Community v. City of Oceanside (2004) 119 Cal.App.4" 477 contains the following
finding:

Based on this evidence, plaintiffs assert the City abused its discretion by certifying the Final SEIR without analyzing the impacts the project would have on views from their adjacent private property.

Under CEQA, the a question is whether a project will affect the environment of persons in general, not whether a project will affect particular persons. (Association for Protection etc.
Values v. City of Ukiah (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 720, 734.) Additionally, California landowners do not have a right of access to air, light and view over adjoining property. (Wolford V. Thomas (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 347, 358.) Plaintiffs concede this authority, but claim they are merely attempting to enforce CEQA's requirement that the City identify and mitigate the a significant environmental effects of a project before approving it. (CEQA Guidelines, §§ 15002, 15021.)
An EIR must identify the "significant environmental effects" of a proposed project. (§ 1100,
subd. (b)(1); CEQA Guidelines, 5126, subd. (a).) For purposes of CEQA, "environment" means physical conditions existing "within the area which will be affected by a proposed project, including land, air, water, minerals, flora, fauna, noise, objects of historic or aesthetic significance." (§ 21060.5.) Thus, aesthetic issues, such as public and private views, are properly studied in an EIR to assess the impacts of a project. (§ 21100, subd. (d); Ocean View Homeowners Ass'n, Inc. v. Montecito Water Dist. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 396, 402-
403.) However, a lead agency has the discretion to determine whether to classify an impact described in an EIR as "significant," depending on the nature of the area affected. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15064, subd. (b); National Parks & Conservation Assn. v. County of Riverside (1999) 71 Cal.App. 4th 1341, 1357 [varying thresholds of significance may apply depending on nature of area affected].) a In exercising its discretion, a lead agency must necessarily make a policy decision in distinguishing between substantial and insubstantial adverse environmental impacts based, in part, on the setting. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15064, subd. (b).) Where the agency determines that a project impact is insigniticant, an EIR need only contain a brief statement addressing the reasons for that conclusion. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15128.)

Based on the preceding impacts to private views, and to give such analysis context,
the DEIR must evaluate GP policies to see if public and private views to important
scenic vistas is given importance in GP.

View 1 - the analysis of the public view to the mountains (background view) is
inaccurate. The current view shows a clear visual path to the mountains with some
mid-ground interference from vegetation. The after-development view of the mountain background is substantially altered by development. Visual access to the mountains/hills south of San Jacinto Mountain is substantially altered. This public view clearly experiences a substantial adverse impact.

p.2.3-14 In View 2 homes east of the project's SE boundary currently have a rural foreground
view; mid-ground is suburban with landscaping, and an almost continuous background view of the hills and mountains. The VSP development and landscaping will substantially alter the background view, only limited and sporadic visual access to the hills will be available to the residents. Whether this loss of visual access by private residents can only be determined by an analysis of GP policies

View 3 is actually illustrative of less impact on scenic vistas. The foreground retention basin minimizes less of access from adjacent residences in View 3 highlights the degree of changes in Views 1 and 2. View 3 foreground undergoes substantial change.
View 4 foreground view is dramatically changed. Views to the mountains in far background is lost in View 4. View to nearest mountains is disturbed but retained. Still a substantial change from the present views.
Based on the preceding description of view changes, we believe that any reasonable person would conclude the change in access to scenic views from public and private vantage points is a significant change, i.e., a significant adverse impact. The photo simulations clearly demonstrate the scope of the change.

p.2.3-19 Analysis should be on existing designation not on hypothetical Suburban Neighborhood. Also, no analysis of and data supporting how Transitional Neighborhood can be similar in visual setting to Desert Estates Neighborhood; i.e., how is a Transitional neighborhood consistent and compatible scale to development intensity on its eastern and northern boundary. Using homes in a higher density designation on the west is an invalid and erroneous visual comparison due to the open space created by the project site. Residences to the north and east are the appropriate and pertinent analytic comparison. The conclusion at top of page 2.3- 20 is not supported by objective analysis.
VSP impact - the comparison from Avenue 50 should be between the view to the site under the existing environmental visual setting and the proposed VSP development. This change will be dramatic. When compared to the visual setting to the east, please refer to View 1 and its impacts.

p.2.4-4 Riverside County also provides independent soil classifications; were Riverside soil classifications consulted? If not, it would be
data is discussed below. appropriate to do so since Riverside

p.2.4-5 Area was farmed until 2019 according to adjacent residents. The 45-acre property is designated as Prime Farmland on County's Important Farmland Map.
p.2.4-6-7 The analysis of losing Prime Farmland is flawed and represents a distorted rationalization for a finding of less than significant impact. This occurs for the following reasons. Prime Farmland is very limited resource, analogous to an endangered species. The GPA reduces the size of lots and removes agriculture as an approved use; thereby eliminating potential use of the onsite soil for its highest and best use. Note that several of the adjacent residences maintain date trees on their property and have them picked each year. The GPEIR found the cumulative loss of Prime Farmland in the City to be a significant unavoidable adverse impact. Approval of the GPA removes approximately 45 acres of Prime Farmland from potential agricultural productivity. Thus, at a minimum, the proposed GPA represents a cumulatively considerable contribution to an action the City has already found to be a significant adverse environmental impact. Presenting this action as

a less than significant impact when it has already been deemed by the City to be a significant impact is a disingenuous finding at best and an intentional error in conflict (inconsistent) with the current General Plan at a minimum. This issue needs to be re-evaluated and the EIR recirculated to properly disçlose this significant impact.

p.2.4-7 The amount of 21,267 of total "important farmland" is the incorrect metric to be used in evaluating the loss of 45.17 acres of Prime Farmland. The correct metric would be the 1,962.5 acres of Prime Farmland in the City used in the GPU EIR. The loss of Prime Farmland under the VSP is actually 2.3%. This absolute loss of acreage due the proposed project is clearly part of a cumulatively considerable adverse impact. Attempting to utilize the Statement of Overriding Considerations (SOOC)
for the General Plan as justification for a less than significant impact finding exceeds credibility; it is a clear error in evaluation, as documented in the GPU EIR; and needs to be corrected through recirculation of the VSP DEIR to adequately correct the substantial failure to inform decision-makers and interested parties.
Section 2.4.7 - Compensatory mitigation is feasible for a specific project's impact to loss of Prime Farmland. The loss of Prime Farmiand can be compensated/offset by purchase and permanent preservation of agricultural land of comparable value. Prime agricultural land mitigation banks have been established in California (such as Elk Grove, California) and offsetting the loss of 45.17 acres of Prime Farmland at a mitigation ratio of 2:1 or 3:1 would be a reasonable and feasible measure.

p.2.4-8 The last paragraph presents flawed data. The City has already found the cumulative loss of Prime Farmland to be a cumulatively considerable adverse impact. The proposed project removes agriculture as possible use of the property. It may not add additional acreage to the loss of Prime Farmland, but the proposed project is clearly a component of the City's cumulatively considerable impact that has been unequivocally found to be an unavoidable significant adverse impact by
the City. As the implementing action that causes the loss of 2.3% of the City's
prime farmland, the proposed project clearly contributes to the City's evaluation of this impact, and by extrapolation is also a project specific significant, cumulatively considerable impact.

p.2.5-13 No data are provided to support the conclusion that the increase in site occupancy emissions (about 13.5 Ibs/day for NOx) from approving the GPA is not a cumulatively considerable incremental increase. 13.5 lbs of NOx per day clearly is not significant for a specific project, but please provide the context to support the conclusion that the additional emissions should not be considered cumulatively significant when added to the overall emissions generated from buildout of the City's
GP.

As stated above regarding Prime Farmland, the fact that the City adopted a SOOC
does not diminish the significant unavoidable adverse impact finding in the GPU
EIR, it only a makes a finding that the City is willing to accept this adverse impact to achieve buildout of the proposed land uses in spite of the adverse impact to which it will expose its citizens. This GPA will add to the City's identified cumulatively considerable significant impact.

p.2.5-21 Same comments as provided on the 2.5-13

p.2.8-10 In the paragraph preceding "Ventana Specific Plan" a conclusion is made that "the
GPA would not cause new or increased severity of impacts regarding long-term operations. However, the analysis does not provide any discussion of "what threshold" of change should be used to determine "significant impact." Please
provide, i.e., if not 2.5% increase what threshold should be used and why.

p.2.8-12 Natural gas. Again, a threshold of significance would help understand and
substantiate this finding. Also, unless required as mitigation, the use of induction??
Cooking stoves and heat pumps cannot be assumed. 0.8% increase in fuel consumption needs context regarding how much of an increase is significant.
Does the project achieve a zero net energy use? If not, how is it consistent with this GP policy?

p.2.12-14 Throughout the discussion of water availability there is a discussion of total water
in storage in the Whitewater River Basin and the volume of water extracted by the
IWA. However, there is no discussion of the two key issues needed for this evaluation: how much of the 28.2 MG in storage is available for human use and most importantly, whether the Basin is in overdraft (exceeds safe yield) and if so, does an increase in GP density contribute to a cumulatively considerable adverse a
impact and affect long-term sustainability of groundwater supplies?

p.2.12-18 There is no discussion of the availability of a groundwater sustainability
management plan, or when compliance with state requirements for such a plan will occur. Also, under the VSP discussion, a WQMP has no effect on water
consumption issues. It does not correlate with the possible need for a sustainable
• groundwater management plan.

p.2.12-19 Cumulative impact findings are incomplete. Pleas provide

p.2.13-2 This GP EIR has studiously avoided discussion of the existing zone classifications on the 45.15-acre property. Like the General Plan designation, the zone classification establishes the maximum density of development. Yes, the GP
identifies the maximum land use density, but the zoning for the property CEIR-1 and
CEIR2 also establishes density, i.e., the maximum number of units that can be developed under the zone classifications at this time. In this case, CEIR-2 allows only one unit per 2 acres. Based on this designation, the project site can currently be developed with about 30 du, rather than 45. Therefore, the analysis throughout this document based on 45 units which is allowed by the General Plan land use designation, but is in error with regard to the actual land use baseline, the actual number of dwelling units that can be constructed at the present time. This is a fatal flaw in the EIR that must be corrected through revising the whole document and
recirculating it for review.

Southern Neighborhood Subarea - area between the Central Neighborhoods and Festival District lifestyle rural country-side environment and existing equestrian uses, rural/resort lifestyle in a quiet and seciuded living environment, maintain the area's unique character, the GPA conflicts with this objective which the local residents consider a major inconsistency.
VSP LU - 1.5 - not consistent, Southern Neighborhood Subarea strategies, no discussion of consistency with the adjacent Southern Neighborhood Subarea.
p.2.13-5 The analysis here is flawed as the proposed project does not enhance the Neighborhood Subarea stability as it extends higher density suburban level development into this area. Multi-modal, required improvements, nothing contributory by the proposed project except the mandated improvements on the adjacent roadway (Avenue 50), such as bus stops, etc. Specific Plan The DEIR does not provide a copy of the whole VSP for independent review. It is not even clear that the VSP contains all of the required elements of a Specific Plan.
Further. the VSP does not create synergies with activities or events in the Festival District, at least none that were identified in this DEIR.

p.2.13-6 Balanced land uses, this project unbalances the land uses established less than 2 years ago in the new General Plan. The VSP may increase the range of single- family residential structures on the site, but it diminishes range of housing choices within the City by eliminating/reducing the 45 acres of rural country-side and rural/resort lifestyle acreage in the City. This designation is already very limited within the City of Indio. LU-2.2

p.2.13-9 The development does not protect views to the mountains. For this section the analysis has focused on the incorrect issue. For example, the Southern Neighborhood Subarea is designed for a lifestyle of a rural countryside environment to support equestrian uses and rural/resort lifestyle in a quiet secluded living environment. The proposed project is the antithesis of this lifestyle. 45 acres are proposed to be removed from this rural/resort lifestyle designation to be replaced by a traditional suburban neighborhood. Thus, both in terms of balancing land uses in the City as a whole and how much suburban residential acreage (2+ units/ac) exists in the City, the assessment should focus on how much land designated for large acreage lots will remain in the City if the VSP is approved. Balance is achieved in the City by providing a full range of residential options, expanding standard suburban, cookie-cutter lots, does not maintain the balance that the City Council included in the recently adopted General Plan which is less is than two years old. Having 30 lots on 45 acres supports a balanced mix of residential development more than does reducing the total acreage of the City allocated to large-lot rural residential land use.

p.2.13-13 Throughout this document it has been stated that the current land use designation allows one unit per acre, which the General Plan does. What this whole document
ignores is that the maximum number of units that can be developed under the current zoning for the site is about 30 units, not 45. Thus, the delta between the existing number of units and proposed GP is (135-30) = 105, not 91. Also, the delta

between the actual number of units proposed under the VSP & TTM 37884 (103-30) = 73, not 58. This is a fatal flow in the EIR analysis and if the DEIR is not corrected and recirculated, it a may lead to a legal challenge. The maximum number of units that could be constructed under the current land use baseline is about 30 units, and
all impacts forecast relying solely on a baseline of 45 units requires reevaluation.

p.2.13-14 For the existing large lot residences the a 45-acre site with a designation of 1 dwelling unit per one- or two-acre parcel makes sense as a buffer between the larger lot residents to the east and the suburban residences to the west. This was the obviously the intent of the City Council when it adopted;the 2019 General Plan. The VSP will destroy this logical buffer area and bring suburban level development directly adjacent to the large lot properties to the east. This is certainly not consistent with the current General Plan

p.2.14-1 First paragraph on page ends with no text conclusion, needs to be rewritten in the final.

p.2.14-15 The noise analysis focuses on how the proposed project will contribute to future noise levels during construction and on adjacent roadways. However, the noise analysis fails to address two important issues: onsite occupancy noise impacts on adjacent sensitive noise receptors to the east and north and impacts of noise from Avenue 50 on the 5 homes adjacent to Avenue 50 in Planning Area 1 . Regarding future onsite noise, there are seven homes between Avenue 49 and Avenue 50 that are currently separated from traditional suburban residential densities by several hundred feet under present conditions. Developing the VSP will bring suburban noise levels to be directly adjacent to those several larger lot residences. The current noise monitoring data for NM3 is a Leq of 41.6 dBA and the current noise monitoring data for NM4 is a Leq of 45.9. These Leg values need to be converted to CNEL, but it would appear that noise levels may increase at the seven residences by 5 decibels or more. This degree of change in noise qualifies as significant and merits disclosure to the adjacent residents and decision makers.
Regarding noise exposure at the 5 future residences closest to Avenue 50, the future noise level from traffic is forecast to be above the existing 72.1 Leq measured at NM5. Policy NEA 2.4 states: "Implement the policies listed under Goal 1 to reduce the impacts of roadway noise on noise-sensitive receptors where roadway
noise exceeds the normally compatible range shown in the City's Noise
Compatibility Matrix shown in Table 3." The norrally compatible range for residential use is a maximum of 60 decibels CNEL. With existing noise along Avenue 50 already at 72.1 Leq and higher when converted to CNEL, it will require 12.1 decibel reduction at the property line of the 5 residences. The City's roadway noise mitigation requirements were identified as reducing noise be 10 dBA, which would leave a residual noise exposure of 62.1 Leq which would result in a significant adverse noise level at the 5 residences. The noise evaluation needs to be redone
and expanded to address this impact. As it currently stands the noise evaluation of the VSP is inadequate and the VSP is inconsistent with General Plan noise requirements.

p.2.15-5 By adding new residential units, it is obvious that the proposed project will contribute to the housing resources. What isn't obvious is whether more units in the Above Moderate Income category, are needed. Such an analysis would look at what number of units in each income category have actually developed between 2014- 2021 and look at whether the proposed project contributes to meeting the number of units within each income category. Further, we believe new RHNA numbers have been issued by SCAG and the analysis should examine these values in addition to whether the City met the RHNA goals for the past 7 years. Also, the 341 new residents should not be compared to the 126,300 value but to the remaining
population growth feasible through 2045, i.e., 129,30Q - 90,751 = 38,549 which is
0.9% of forecast growth.

p.2.17-7 Please explain how passive open space, primarily designed for stormwater management (the majority of the 7.15 acres of landscape open space) is counted as part of the 3 acres of park space per 1,000 residents identified as the City
standard. It does not make sense as the 3-acre criterion is for active, not passive,
park space. It is also not clear whether onsite passive open space will be available
to the public other than residents of the development. Please explain.

p.2.17-9 According to the preceding analysis, the City is 297 acres short on adequate parkland acreage to meet the 3 acres of park per 1,000 population. With about
38,800 in population growth (including the proposed project) through 2045, the total
park acreage that must be created to meet the City's park standard is 335.8 acres (297 ac + 38.8 ac = 335.8 acres). It is reasonable to assume that creation of 335.8 acres, particularly water consumption, could result in a significant cumulative impact on the City's environment. The proposed project contributes to this potentially cumulatively considerable recreation impact.

p.2.18-22 The discussion regarding "Alternative Transportation Planning" is misleading
because it gives the impression that future residents will have "improved pedestrian" access along Avenue 50 and access to mass transit when the project is completed and occupied. This statement is not accurate. Transportation alternatives like sidewalks, bike paths and reasonable access to mass transit may be years away due to the fact that the project construction will• create isolated, stranded infrastructure improvements until or if other development along Avenue 50 installs
such facilities as part of their development. This point should be made clear in the text as it could be years before actual connectivity to safe alternative modes of transportation is available for VSP residents.

p.2.18-23 VMT. Existing local residents have heard reports that the VSP residences will be used during major events at nearby venues in the Festival District for rentals (hospitality uses). If this is possible, then the VMT evaluation should address the miles traveled by such renters. Alternatively, the City could condition the project to not allow short-term vacation rentals, which would eliminate the potential for this
impact on VMT.

p.2.18-24 Emergency access. The City Fire Department has accepted a single site access point, with a divided road as an adequate emergency access. Although this may be acceptable to the City, it does not constitute an actual secondary emergency

access. Although a low probability, a large truck-trailer accident at the access
roadway and Avenue 50 could hypothetically close all emergency access to the site with no secondary alternative alignment as normally required. The City is assuming a substantial risk that such a circumstance will a not occur and result in harm to a future resident during an emergency. We are surprised the City is willing to accept
such a risk. a

p.2.20-8 Same issue as previously raised under hydrology: If the GPU EIR relied on qualitative data to conclude buildout development water resource impacts would be less than significant, how can this analysis conclude that water resources will be sustainable over the long term? There is no factual foundation for this conclusion.
Actual data and analysis of the water data is needed to justify conclusion regarding less than significant impact.
p.2.20-9 'Instead of looking at annual. capacity, it would be appropriate to provide data on 5 daily capacity. Is the 5 mg/d treatment capacity exceeded on a daily basis. And if so, does Plant WRP-7 have adequate storage capacity to balance inflows into the plant over a reasonable period?
p.2.20-10 The discussion of submitting a future drainage plan to identify if any offsite drainage system improvements are needed constitutes deferral. Because this project consists of a specific project, the VSP and tract map in addition to a GPA, it is necessary to identify all offsite improvements for evaluation now, not in the future. Concluding that drainage system impacts are less than significant without any evidence is an error in the analysis.

p.3-5 Please provide data to support the statement that "no alternative site was available for sale or met the project objectives in the area of the City." As presented, this is a conclusory finding with no data to support it.

p.3-6 Alternative 1 would require a zone change to achieve the 45 units on the site. The
current CEVR-1 and CEIR-2 zoning would only allow up to about 30 residential units.
This condition represents the current CEQA baseline for evaluation in this DEIR.
This issue also applies to significance threshold c) on p.3.3-4.

p.3.4-2 The conclusion stated in paragraph 1 on this page is flawed as previously indicated.
The loss of prime farmland at the project site is part of the cumulatively
considerable impact identified in the GPU EIR. Therefore, it cannot be less than
significant as concluded in this unsupported statement.

p.3.14-3 Note that if ohly 30 residences are built on the project site, this. wouid allow for .setbacks from Avenue 50 to eliminate any exposure to significant noise from traffic.

p.3.17-4 a Within a noise setback area for Alternative 1, a larger park area, perhaps even a public park, could be established.

p.4-1 Based on the preceding comments, we submit to the City that the proposed VSP project will cause significant unavoidable adverse impacts under the following environmental issues: Aesthetics, Agriculture, Hydrology and Water Quality, Land
Use, and Noise.

.As previously noted, a full copy of the Specific Plan is not provided in the DEIR,

therefore, it was not possible to verify the content of the Specific Plan and compare it with the impact forecasts in this document.

Based on our review, this DEIR was prepared to support the proposed project, not to make an unbiased evaluation of the project's environmental impacts. Existing City residents and our decision-makers deserve a better environmental document to properly inform everyone about the real consequences of approving the proposed project. The proposed project seeks to change a vision of the City that was embodied by the 2019 General Plan. We submit that it is too soon to make this degree of change in the Generai Plan's vision in a manner that will reduce the diversity of future residences, not enhance it. We have identified many errors and flaws in the current DEIR that need to be corrected before this project is brought before the City's decision-makers. We request that the City revise the DEIR using unbiased analysis and re-circulate the document to ensure the actual impacts are fully characterized. Thank you for the opportunity to submit these comments.

Very truly yours,

LAW OFFICES OF MATT H. MORRIS

/S/

MATT H. MORRIS, ESQ.

MHM:dch

A

-P - LAW OFFICES OF
MATT H. MORRIS

Matt H. Morris, Esq. 47040 Washington Street, Suite 3201
La Quinta, California 92253

Dyan Flyzik, Esq., of Counsel Telephone. 760.777.7941
Facsimile. 760.777.8533
matt@mhmorrislaw.com

July 29, 2020

City of Indio Planning Commission
Leila Namvar, Senior Planner
City of Indio
100 Civic Center Mall ;*

Indio, CA 92201

RE: Ventana Project in City of Indio:
General Plan Amendment, Tentative Tract Map and Specific Plan

Dear Chairperson Franz and Members of the City of Indio Planing Commission:

This law fu'm represents Michael and Lynn Kincaid, among others, who oppose the Ventana
Project. (*Project") The Project is opposed because it represents a whole-sale repudiation of decades
of promises by the City of Indio to protect and preserve the nature and integrity of the County-Estates
area in south Indio.

Pursuant to the Initial Study ("IS"), the City proposes to grant the Developer a site specific
general plan amendment, a special site specific zoning, along with a specific plan and tentative tract map so it can build something radically different than anything in the area. If allowed, the Project will be the death kcnell for the Country Estates area. It will effectively drop the significantly higher
density housing in the middle of 5, 7, 1½ and 1 acre ranch properties.. All of the propertics surrounding the Project site were developed consistent with, and in reliance on, City of Indio General Plans and zoning.
THE VENTANA PROJECT AND RELATED GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT REQUIRE
AN EIR.

The planning department has identified many potential significant impacts the Project will have on the environment and surrounding neighbors. Nevertheless, the planning department proposes to take the drastic step of not requiring an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) to address these impacts. Despite significant impacts, the Planning Department believes that if it

. 4.

July 29, 2020
Page Two

changes the general plan, zoning, site plan and tract map to please the Developer, and requires the Developer to build consistent with these unwarranted concessions, the impacts on the surrounding properties will be mitigated.

For example, this Project will create negative effects of light pollution, noise, poor air quality, destruction of special species habitat, traffic congestion and hazzards. The Planning Department proposes to mitigate these impacts by simply changing all the standards for the Project Developer. According to the IS, everyone in the Country Estates area is required to build à maximum a of one house per acre, but the Ventana Developer will be allowed to cram up to 8 units per acre, and the City does not believe this will have any negative impact on the surrounding coinmunity.
The Planning Commission and City should not allow this project to be developed in its current form. This is not a punishment to the Developer. The Developer knew what was allowed to be built on the project site when the property was purchased: If the Project is developed as proposed, all of the surrounding properties will become isolated islands in a sea of houses. What is proposed now is an aberration. 5

Based on the Project's radical departure from the existing General Plan and zoning, an EIR should be prepared for this massive project. The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a governmental agency to prepare an EIR instead of a negative declaration (mitigated or otherwise) whenever there is "substantial evidence supporting a fair argument that a proposed Project may have a significant effect on the environment." (Citizens for Responsible & Open Government v City of Grand Terrace (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1323,:13320: The "fair argument standard" is a "low threshold " test for requiring the preparation of an EIR. (Id. [citing Pocket Protectors y City of Sacramento (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 903.928].) As explained below, given the obvious likelihood that the Project will have sufficient effect on the environment by additional vehicle trips, significant construction impacts including noise and.air impacts, disturbing prime farmland, destroying habitat for protected species, and obstructing the view of existing land owners with an overly dense mega-project, an EIR. is required.

sf!:
THE PROJECT SITE IS NOT IN AN URBAN AREA:
.*,
Those opposed to this Project (nam at the end) object toj the planning departments mis- characterization of the Project site as being in an "urban environment." (IS atp. 19) The area is most definitely not urban. The closest commercial development (Ralphls. Center) is a half mile away. a Between Ralphs and the project site on the north side of Avenue 50 is a vacate:20 acre parcel, a 2½ acre parcel (one home) four five acre parcels each with one home pr outbuitdings. South of the project site is a 7 acre parcel and a five acre parcel each with one house and outbuilding. Bast of the project are 3 five acre parcels each with one home, and a 1½ acre parcel development that is not completely built out. North of the project there are 1½ and acre parcels. Along the north-west portion of site are 6 half acre parcels with one home each. Virtually all of the

:

i

July 29, 2020

.M: Page Three

surrounding property owners oppose the Project.
Across the street on 50th, starting at Jefferson and proceeding east, is a 20 acre parcel, 15 acre parcel and an 8 acre parcel all with one home and outbuildings. Directly south 'across the street is a low density golf course community. To the south-east are 2½ acre polo estates. These border on
proposes a "suburban" zoning change designation. Clearly, the Project site is planned directly in a square mile of polo fields and horse ranches. This is not an "urban" area. In fact the IS itself
the middle of extremely low density housing. Most existing houses were constructed on vacant
desert or where farming used to occur.
: 68
The Project site itself was designated as "Prime Farmlan'd" on the 2016 Riverside County Important Farmland map. (IS at p. 27) The property was used for faiming purposes until 2019 when it was purchased by the Developer. The Developer shut down the farming operations.
t
The next closest farming operation is not the Shields Date Garden on Hwy 111 as reported by the IS, but is the Morris ranch immediately next to the project sitè, where dates and ornamental
trees are farmed. There is also active farming occurring on the other side of Avenue 50 (north-west)
from the Project.
What the IS proposes is that "prime farmland" in an area zoned for farming, be completely
eliminated by a site specifio general plan and zoning that precludes farming. (The IS says this is
acceptable because: "the proposed Project will not conflict with zoning for agricultural uses, because it is designated for residential use, and is located a in a rapidly urbanizing environment." In other words, there will be no zoning conflict because the City will change the zoning for the Developer,
and allow rapid urbanization of the only Country Estates area in the City. There is no explanation of how the significant impact of converting prime farmland in themiddle of a.low density ranches
is going to be mitigated.
Po ccom:: b
Even the EIR conducted by the City in adopting the last General Plan changes, "concluded that build out of the General Plan will result in significant and unavoidable impacts regarding conversions of farmland to non-agricultural uses." That General Plan and zoning, which currently controls the Country Estates area, allows for agricultural uses. Obviously, completely removing prime farmiand and changing the General Plan and zoning will, by virtue of the City's own EIR, result in a "significant impact" requiring serious Project modifications along with a site specific EIR.

di•
THE PROJECT WILL HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ONTHE AESTHETICS OF THE

t83 : AREA

B Based on the false premise that the Project is in an "urban" environment, the IS concludes that the negative impact on aesthetics can be mitigated. The IS is limited almost exclusively to discussing whether the Project interferes with views of the surrounding mountains. The realnegative impact of this Project, however, is its affect on the aesthetics of the area. •
1
HP. PlOr.
1:.3 A'

* *. -:e

• *..

July 29, 2020
Page Four .•

What someone approaching this Project on Avenue 50 from the east or the west sees is a series of small ranches with abundant open space - until one arrivès at the Projéct. In the middle of all these ranches will be high density building complex of 5 - 6 small units per acre. The units are so small that it will have the appearance of a two story condo or apartment complex. This is totally inconsistent with the aesthetics of the area.

A. The Projects's High Density "Housing" Will Be Used As A Commercial Enterprise. *
A major concern is that these small "houses" are intended to be used by the Developer and/or buyers, as short term vacation rentals ("STVR") during the Coachella Festival and other Valley events. This type of construction and use is anathema to all of the surrounding existing uses.
The bottom line with STVRs is that they turn residential areas into commercial centers. "Short-term tenants have little interest in public agencies or in the welfare of the citizenry. They do not participate in local government, coach little league, or joining in the hospital: guild. They do not lead a Scout troop, volunteer a the library, or keep an eye on an elderly neighborr Literally, they are here today and gone tomorrow - without engaging in the sort of activities that weld and strengthen a community." (California Court of Appeal decision in Ewing vsi City of Carmel By The Sea)

residential use. AAT E MF STVRs are a commercial business. They are an incompatible use in areas planned for

.due By their very nature, STVRs are noisy and invite problems affecting residents' quality oflife. Transient strangers come to vacation and have fun; residents are not;on vacation - they are here to live and work. No amount of regulation or enforcement can change the inherent nature and constant turnover of strangers here to have fun in STVRs. i

It is red herring to think that relying on regulations and epforcement will make STVRs acceptable in the, Project. No matter what improvements are made to enforcement, the onus is always on the resident to be the first responder. By the time residents contact code enforcement or the police, their quality of life has already been disrupted. Quality of life is degraded by neighbors being woken up during the middle of the night, trash being left behind by uncaring visitors, tight parking spaces and streets being taken up by out of town transients; etc. +pE.

: STVRs remove housing units from the city stock and make housing less available or affordable for people who want to live in the city. They lower property values. They result in loss of a portion of TOT to the City. And they strain code enforcement and police resources. For these and many other reasons cities all across California are strictly limiting or banning STVRs.
t *v: 1o
B. The Project's Proposed Homes Are Not Consistent With Existing Housing.

The IS states, without factual support, that "The proposed homes will be consistent in scale

4 w/•.

¡ :
0m. •9•

:
V

ith

July 29, 2020
Page Five E1

and mass to those already occurring in the area surrounding the Project, and will not change the visual character of the area." One need only drive through the area to see that this is a false claim.
There are only 21 homes in the approximately 92 acres north of Avenue 50 which surround the Project. (This includes 7 homes in Desert River bordering the Project) That is an average of 1 home per 4.3 acres. The smallest of these lots is one half acre in size. The small 5-6 per acre units the Developer proposes are nothing like the homes in area surrounding the Project. The Project will have a significant negative impact on the visual character of the area. Once again, the City's only mitigation measure is to change the general plan and zoning so the Developer's plans can be
carried out.

MAAN/. C. Light Pollution From The Project Site Will Have A Significant Nègative Impact On
The Surrounding Area. * :
The IS correctly reports that: "Currently, there are no existing sources of light on the Project site." There is zero night time light coming from the project site. (IS at p. 24) .*:-
The existing minimal light in the area is generated by 21 homes scattered over 90 plus acres. There are no street lights on Avenue 50 except at its intersection with Jefferson and Madison a balf mile away. (The IS a p. 24 erroneously states there is "street lighting" on Avenue 50.)
: :
What the Project proposes is night time lighting from over 100 units, laid out on 10 new streets, all of which will have street lighting according to "City Public Work Engineering Standards (Indio - 200, Street Light Residential Area)." (IS at p. 25) This will be like setting off low level fire works every night compared to the zero light generated on the site for the last 100 plus years.
This Project will create a new source of substantial light and glare which will adversely affect nighttime views in the area. It is specious for the IS to conclude that because the zoning will be changed to allow the light pollution generated by the Project, that there will be a less than significant impact on the Project's neighbors. Once again, the Project proposes a significantinegative departure from what is currently in the area. *

PROJECT CONSTRUCTION WILL HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON AIR QUALITY
. 8
The IS states that: "Under CEQA, a significant air qualtiy impact could occur if the [Project] is not consistent with the applicable Air quality Management Plan." (IS at p. 30) The IS admits that the Project will contribute to an increase in regional ozone and PM10 emissions. (Id.) Nevertheless, the planners believe that the Project Developer will comply with City air quality construction requirements so there should be no negative impact. b : 1
:
The IS analysis, however, does not seriously address the fact that this Project site presents significant challenges related to air quality. The site is not like a typical construction site. It contains

: +-*.

+

July 29, 2020
Page Six :

both natural and built up sand dues containing almost 75,000 cubic yards of blow sand and dirt. (IS at p. 31) That sand/dirt has to be removed form the site or the developer will significantly change the topography of the site. In turn, this could significaatly alter water courses and view sheds. nES
Blowing sand and fine dirt from the site has been a significant problem with just the minor farming operations on the site. The wind typically blows form west to east across the property, causing extreme air quality issues for properties east of the site. Property owners have experienced poor breathing conditions that prevented being outdoors, reduced visibility due to blowing sand, rapidly depleted air filters, destroyed AC units, filled pool filters, roof top dust accumulation, etc.
In addition to grading and removing 75,000 cubic yards of dirt from the site, the Developer will be grading and making roads for over double the amount of homes allowed by the current General Plan. That means more street grading, more house pad grading, more curb and gutter, etc.
i
Another serious concern is that this particular Developer does not have'a good track record in complying with air quality standards. Past construction by this Developer north of Avenue 48 created serious air quality and dust buildup issues for properties around that project site.
i:j soi :.. In conclusion, in discussing air quality health impacts the ISistates: the extent to which the Project poses a health risk is nncertain but unavoidable. (Id. at p. 33:) This simply is not a sufficient CEQA analysis, especially in light of the fact that no EIR. has been prepared. :
•8 S TRAFFIC GENERATED BY THE PROJECT WILL CREATE A SIGNIFICANT
NEGATIVE IMPACT.

Perhaps the weakest part of the IS is its failure to address the significant.impacts caused by
an increased traffic. Currently there are zero trips per day occurring in and out of the Project site. When it was actively being farmed, trips per day were approximately two to four.
The Project will generate a staggering 1000 percent increase óf traffic in and out of the Project.' This is almost 1000 trips in and out of the Project everyday. This adds the noise, glare from headlights and pollution generated by 1000 cars/trucks. This problem is not restricted to onsite noise, light and other pollution. All the property owners east and west of the Project on Avenue 50 will have to listen to 1000 additional cars and trucks slow down and speed up as they enter and exit the Project. No mitigation measures are proposed for this 1000 % increase in traffic on what is now a relatively quite two lane road. : ;'

The amazing increase in traffic also present a serious health and safety issue for property owners in the area. The Country-Estates arca was developed with the intent that area owners could

1The IS reports that: "According to the Traffic Report, the proposed Project will generate approximately 972 daily trips." (IS at p. 31) "i :

i: *

!

P

*

July 29, 2020 !

Page Seyen

in engage in agricultural and equestrian activities. Between Jefferson Street and Madison Street
there are many people who own approximately 70 horses. During the winter months the horse population can be significantly higher.
Many of the owners/riders use trails on the south side of Avenue 50 that extend as far as Lake Cahuilla and beyond. In the past, Indio has made provision for trails on the nörth side of 50 but those trails: like the one agreed upon for the north-east corner of Madison and 50th - have not been
developed.

dae The prospect of 1000 additional car/truck trips on 504 creätës a health and safety hazzard for horse owners. Given that all the traffic for the Project will exit and enter atone. location off of 50t44 the Project entrance will be extremely busy. The IS is silent on how area horse owners are supposed to safely navigate 50 with all the additional traffic, noise and-congestion.

The IS provides no mitigation measures to ensure the safety of horse riders, or to protect the integrity of the area for equestrian activities. There are 1.0 people who own horses in the area that
are in favor of the Project. The Project's "urban" plan is decidedly anti-horse and anti-horse
ownership. The Project is planned contrary to longstanding General Plan and zoning in the area.
Current zoning allows horse to be kept on Country-Estates properties. The Project has a significant negative impact on historical recreation activities in the area.
; 0:
What will the City do the first time a horse, or horse and rider, is killed by someone speeding into or out of the Project? How will the City protect against such. an accident? This should be
explored in an EIR.
2
THE PROJECT WILL HAVE POTENTIALLY SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON BIOLOGICAL
RESOURCES. •

: ATA
The IS reports that "special-status" species of birds are located on the Project site. One is "a locally rare species" and the other is a "California species of special concern," (IS at p. 36) The
IS also identifies special-status plant species. No mitigation is proposed to protect these species or their habitat except to require the developer to pay money to the CVMSHCP. In other words, the IS is asking the City and Planning Commission to destroy this habitat, without an EIR.
Additionally, the IS reports that another species of special concern, the burrowing owl could
be within the Project site. The IS says that if present on the property, "a significant impact would occur." Construction is not allowed where these owl burrow. (IS at p. 37) Although the Developer's investigators claim they didn't see any owls, the area neighbors commonly see.owls on the Project
site.

.:

•

.*

July 29, 2020
Page Eight

The IS also lists several other bird "species of special concern" that could nest in the Project site on a seasonal basis and otherwise. (Id.) In point of fact, one such bird seen in the Project site is the Cooper's hawk, and well as many other types of hawks, including nesting Red Tails hawks. The IS reports that "under the provisions of the MBTA, impacts to covered nesting birds would be considered significant." (Id.)

The IS plan to mitigate impacts on these special concern species is for the developer to get geared up to start construction, and then look in the bushes and on the ground for burrowing owls or nests. If the developer does not see any nests or burrows then it is allowed to proceed to destroy the habitat so the birds can not come back. Apparently the IS/Mitigated Negative Declaration authors believe that once the habitat is destroyed the bird problem will be mitigated. In other words, let's put the fox in! charge of the hen house. Once again, all of this mitigation för "special species" is proposed without an EIR. G

*:
THE PROJECT POSES A POTENTIALLY SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON CULTURAL
RESOURCES • at.nlu
n
The IS states that archacological resources may be encountered in arca that have been
developed or farmed but have not been subject to extensive subsurfäce distrubance. (excavation)." (IS at p. 40) This is an accurate description of the Project site. The site contains a significant natural dune that has never been farmed or excavated.
;
The IS said that during a Phase I cultural resource study the Developer's investigators did not see any "bistorical resources", but still recommended "archaeological monitoring" due to sensitivity of the Project location for subsurface cultural remains of prehistoric origin. In other words, the investigators believe that the Project site is an area where such remains are likely,; but they didn't see any.? In point of fact, in the 1970s, one could see cooking pits and bone fragments on the natural dune. :

The IS said "the City is conducting Tribal Consultation in conformance with both SB 18 and
A.B 52 requirements and contacting the tribes in writing. Should the Tribes request consultation and provide input on the potential impacts, they will be included in conditions of approval and/or added to this Initial Stud," It is clear from the IS that the City has yet to hear from the Tribes. Accordingly, the IS is incomplete on this point. Without hearing from the "Tribes, how can the planning commission make an informed decision about approving the Project:. :* .:

Despite the foregoing concerns, the IS recommends that the Project be approved without an EIR. The mitigation proposed is that as while the Developer's earth moving equipment operators

•:

(b 1 2"Applied Earth Works suggested that the Project area has high potential for significant paleontological resources, both near the ground surface and at greater depths.', (IS at p. 47, emphasis added.).

4

.Adr. 1:

t

V:

July 29, 2020 :

Page Nine

are in the middle of moving 75,000 cubic yards of dirt, and doing the rough grading, they should be on the lookout from their machine perches to see if they are disturbing any historical resources.
THE PROJECT'S GENERATION OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL AND AFFECT ON
WATER QUALITY POSE A SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE IMPACT

Lack of water to this Project is a potentially significant impact. It appears that the Project needs/requires two water sources. One is a proposed connection to an existing CVWD 18 inch irrigation lateral under Avenue 50. (IS at p. 60) This lateral carries Ail American Canal water. The water is not potable. Why the Project would be connecting to this line is a mystery. *:* -
The second possible source mentioned is an "8 inch water máin located north of the project site. No new wells or additional water infrastructure are proposed." (Id.) No indication is given where this connection will take place or whether the Project Devéloper has permission to cross existing private property to connect with the water main. Further, is it not clear how the Developer is going to provide potable water to 45 acres of homes and attendant landscaping, etc., through one 8 inch water main: The City has to seriously question whether there is sufficient water available to the site, and whether proposed usage will impact water resources in the area.
All of the existing ranches in the area receive water from their own or shared wells. There is no indication what the affect of the Project water usage will häve on existing small farm/home wells in the area. The demand for so much additional water could haye a devastating impact on all the surrounding properties. This should be the subject of an EIR G ir
SAt .am
The IS states that: Development of the proposed Project will incrcase impermeable surfaces on-site, and therefore increase on-site storm flows. Recent storm flows from the site, without the increases from impermeable surfaces, caused significant flooding to surrounding property. An EIR should be conducted to address this issue.

The developer proposes to catch all storm and run off wateran: "6 onsite retention basis." All of these basins, except one, are located along the Project's southern boundary immediately next to the Kincaid and Morris properties, and down the east boundary of the Morris prpperty. In essence, the Project will take the accumulated storm flow of the 45 acre development, along with all the fertilizer and pesticides from the homes/yards, all the roof top dust and debris, and all the street and gutter oil and contaminants, and dump it in holding ponds along two neighbors; property lines.
8 38 Obviously a major concern is that if the retention basins fail, the neighboring properties will be flooded. Of equal or greater concern, is that the storm water refuse and over irrigating byproducts will be dumped and allowed to sink into the soil virtually on top of weils (within 20 feet) used by neighbors for drinking and other household uses. The potential negative impact of retention basis capacity and location, and their affect on neighboring water wells, needs toybe thoroughly and completely investigated by the City. An EIR should be required... st:
¡ 1 B, :

*r•

+p.

••

July 29, 2020
Page Ten

PROJECT NOISE WILL HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE AREA.
.?.
Some of the Project noise issues have already been addressed.. Noise from the site will go from an occasional coyote to the noise generated by 1000 vehicle trips and 103 housing units - 25% of which will be from extremely high density building.

The IS does not bother to address operational noise generated by the Project at build out. It describes the difference in noise between no traffic and thousapds of daily vehicle trips as "a marginal increase." (IS at p. 69) There are no mitigation measures for'a 1000% increase in traffic
noise.

3 The only tnitigation measures included in the IS are for course of construction mitigation.
Noise is a significant issue the City should address in an EIR. i f

THE CITY NOTICE OF INTENT AND INITIAL STUDY MATERIAL'S ARE DEFICIENT
1
It does not appear that all Project neighbors received the NOI'.
* An additional concern is that the IS/Mitigated Negative Declaration does not include the appendices that purportedly contain supporting scientific studies. All of the following are missing
from the IS:

CalEEMOD Air Quality nd GHG modeling; to
•* Habitat Assessment;
Cultural Resource Study;
Geotechnical Investigation;
Paleontological Resources Assessment;
Phase I and Phase II Environmental Site Assessment; and •: Noise Impact Analysis.

The IS states that these reports are "Available at City Hall." This mnethod of distributing information is extremely prejudicial to persons wishing to study the Project and decide whether or how to comment. Given the current Covid concerns, going to City Hall, and the City's hours, make
obtaining these reports difficult. The Project opponents suggest that the City postpone any hearing 01 this Project until later in the fall, and at a time when the background information for the IS is more readily available.

Based upón our initial review, the IS contains fatal flaws and fails to acknowledge that
substantial evidence of significant unmitigated impacts exist. Once Project opponents have more
time to time to complete their review they may submit further comments on the inadequacies of the
IS/MND. . *..* 1•

July 29, 2020
Page Bleven
In the past, The City has required an EIR for General Plan àmendments.4 It is alarming that
the City is considering the current GP Amendment without an EIR. •If it is the Dèveloper's position that the updated GP and zoning should apply to the Project, then the Project should not be approved through a Mitigated Negative Declaration. It is doubtful that this intense, oversized Project, would be approved in its current form, or otherwise, if an EIR is performed.
It is the City's responsibility to ensure that the overall development of the land is designed to ensure the protection of the public health, safety, and general, welfare. Based on all of the foregoing, we do not believe that the Project, as planned, can be constructed or maintained in a manner that will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare, or be materially injurious to properties or improvements in the vicinity.
The design and location of the proposed development and its relationship to neighboring existing or proposed properties, with its attendant noise and traffic is such that it will impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the surrounding area; it will unreasonably interfere with the use and enjoyment of neighboring existing or proposed developments, and it will create traffic : hazards or congestion.
w That the design and location of the proposed development is not in keeping with the character of the surrounding area and is detrimental to the harmonious, orderly, and attractive development contemplated by the General Plan and existing zoning.
elo A
The IS outlines a finding: "that although the proposed project,could have a.significant effect a the environment there will not be a significant effect in this case because revisions in the project have been made or agreed to by the project proponent." In fact, the IS is devoid of any revisions by on

the Developer. Instead, what is clear on the face of the City documents, is that the Developer has laid out what it wants to do, and the City is changing the General Plan, zoning and everything else necessary to accommodate the Developer. All of this is being done to the significant negative detriment of all the existing property owners. Equally disturbing, is the fact that all of this is being done without the objective and fair analysis of a site specific EIR :
1i
Very truly yours, :

LAW OFFICES OF MATT. H. MORRIS t.
v
/S/

1
MATT H. MORRIS, ESQ. EU *
•*

,.
+ a- *** :

1

July 29, 2020
Page Twelve

Project Opponents:

Michael Kincaid
Lynn Kincaid
Julie Reeske
Michael Reeske
Steve Mann
Todd Baker
Kelly Remmling
Erich Remmling
David Bryan
Greg Fleming
Pamela Baker
Gerald Hampton
Jessica Hampton.
Kelly Cross
Terri Miller
Lee Miller
Jesse McKeever
Katie O'Malley
Nate Rucker
Sidney Rucker
Eileen Bruner-Dryden
Pat Zacker
Bruce Hughes, Esq.
Lisa Hughes, Esq.
Mike Dawson
Wanda Reese
Darwin Weeks
Joann Weeks
Arline Titone
Rex Sylvester
Tracy Sylvester
Ty Webb
Marcy Webb
Dr. Aaron Bean
David Ball
Kimberly Ball
- •*

1 VERIFICATION

2 STATE OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE
3

4 have read the foregoing VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND

5 COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE AND DECLARATORY RELIEF, and know its contents. I am a

6 party to this action. The matters stated in the foregoing document are true of my own knowledge except
7 as to those matters which are stated on information and belief, and as to those matters I believe them to
8
be true.
9

10 Executed on August 19, 2021, at La Quinta, California.

11 I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is
12 true and correct.

13

14
Samuel Kyle 15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

ATTORNEY OR PARTY WITHOUT ATTORNEY (Name, State Bar number, Matt Morris, Esq. FOR COURT USE ONLY
of Law Office of Matt H. Morris
47040 Washington Street, Suite 3201 La Quinta, CA 92253
TELEPHONE NO.: 760.777.7941 FAX NO. (Opliona): 760.777.8533
ATTORNEY FOR (Name): Lynn Kincaid, an individual; Samuel Kyle, an individual
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE
STREET AODRESS: 3255 East Tahquitz-Canyon Way MAILING AODRESS: Palm Springs,.CA 92262
CITY AND ZIP CODE:
BRANCH NAME: Palm Springs Branch
CASE NAME:
Lynn Kincaid, an individual;Samuel Kyle, an individual;vs City of Indio, a Municipal Corporation, etal
CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET CASE NUMBER:
X  Unlimited Complex Case Designation Limited
(Amount (Amount - Counter - Joinder
demanded demanded is Filed with first appearance by defendant JUDGE:
exceeds $25,000) $25,000) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.402) DEPT.:
Items 1-6 below must be completed (see instructions on page 2)
Check one box below for the case type that best describes this case: Auto Tort Contract Provisionally Complex Civil Litigation Auto (22) Breach of contract/warranty (06) (Cal. Rules of Court, rules 3.400-3.403) Uninsured motorist (46)
Other PI/PD/WD (Personal Injury/Property Rule 3.740 collections (09) Antitrust/Trade regulation (03)

Damage/Wrongful Death) Tort Other collections (09) Construction defect (10)
Insurance coverage (18) Mass tort (40) Asbestos (04)
Product liability (24) Other contract (37) Securities litigation (28)
Medical malpractice (45) Real Property Environmental/Toxic tort (30)
Insurance coverage claims arising from the [ Other PI/PDMWD (23) - Eminent domain/Inverse condemnation (14) above listed provisionally complex case
Non-PI/PD/WD (Other) Tort types (41)
Business tort/unfair business practice (07) H Wrongful eviction (33) Other real property (26) Enforcement of Judgment
Civil rights (08) Unlawful Detainer j Enforcement of judgment (20)
Defamation (13) Miscellaneous Civil Complaint

Fraud (16) 5 Commercial (31)
Residential (32) L RICO (27)
Intellectual property (19) Drugs (38) Other complaint (not specified above) (42)
Professional negligence (25) Judicial Review Miscellaneous Civil Petition

Other non-PI/PD/WD tort (35) Asset forfeiture (05) Partnership and corporate governance (21)
Employment Petition re: arbitration award (11) Other petition (not specified above) (43)
Wrongful termination (36) Writ of mandate (02)
Other employment (15). Other judicial review (39)
2. This case is x ] is not complex under rulè 3.400 of the California Rules of Court. If the case is complex, mark the factors requiring exceptional judicial management:
a. Large number of separately represented parties d. Large number of witnesses
b. Extensive motion practice raising difficult or novel e. Coordination with related actions pending in one or more issues that will be time-consuming to resolve courts in other counties, states, or countries, or in a federal
C. Substantial amount of documentary evidence court
f Substantial postjudgment judiçial supervision 3. Remedies sought (check all that apply): a. [x ] monetary b. [X] nonmonetary; declaratory or injunctive relief C. - punitive 4. Number of causes of action (specify): Three
5. This case -is [x  is not a class action suit.
6. If there are any known related cases, file and serve a notice of related case. (You Date: August 9, 2021
Matt H. Morris, Esq.
(TYPE OR PRINT NAME) llafu
NOTICE (SIGNATURE OF PARTY OR ATTORNEY FOR PARTY)

Plaintiff must file this cover sheet with the first paper filed in the action or proceeding (except small claims cases or cases filed under the Probate Code, Family Code, or Welfare and Institutions Code). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.220.) Failure to file may result in sanctions.
File this cover sheet in addition to any cover sheet required by local court rule. If this case is complex under rule 3.400 et seq. of the California Rules of Court, you must serve a copy of this cover sheet on all other parties to the action or proceeding. Unless this is a collections case under rule 3.740 or a complex case, this cover sheet will be used for statistical purposes only. Page 1 ol 2
Form Adopted for Mandatory Use CIM CASE COUER SHEFT Cal. Rules of Court, rules 2.30, 3.220, 3.400-3.403, 3.740;

INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO COMPLETE THE COVER SHEET CM-010
To Fiaintiffs and Others Filing First Papers. If you are filing a first paper (for example, a complaint) in a civil case, you must complete and file, along with your first paper, the Civil Case Cover Sheet contained on page 1. This information will be used to compile statistics about the types and numbers of cases filed. You must complete items 1 through 6 on the sheet. In item 1, you must check one box for the case type that best describes the case. If the case fits both a general and a more specific type of case listed in item 1, check the more specific one. If the case has multiple causes of action, check the box that best indicates the primary cause of action. To assist you in completing the sheet, examples of the cases that belong under each case type in 1 item 1 are provided below. A cover sheet must be filed only with your initial paper. Failure to file a cover sheet with the first paper filed in a civil case may subject a party, its counsel, or both or to sanctions under rules 2.30 and 3.220 of the California Rules of Court. To Parties in Rule 3.740 Collections Cases. A "collections case" under rule 3.740 is defined as an action for recovery of money owed in a sum stated to be certain that is not more than $25,000, exclusive of interest and attorney's fees, arising from a transaction in which property, services, or money was acquired on credit. A collections case does not include an action seeking the following: (1) tort damages, (2) punitive damages, (3) recovery of real property, (4) recovery of personal properly, or (5) a prejudgment writ of attachment. The identification of a case as a rule 3.740 collections case on this form means that it will be exempt from the general time-for-service requirements and case management rules, unless a defendant files a responsive pleading. A rule 3.740 collections case will be subject to the requirements for service and obtaining a judgment in rule 3.740. To Parties in Complex Cases. In complex cases only, parties must also use the Civil Case Cover Sheet to designate whether the case is complex. If a plaintiff believes the case is complex under rule 3.400 of the California Rules of Court, this must be indicated by completing the appropriate boxes in items 1 and 2. If a plaintiff designates a case as complex, the cover sheet must be served with the complaint on all parties to the action. A defendant may file and serve no later than the time of its first appearance a joinder in the plaintiff's designation, a counter-designation that the case is not complex, or, if the plaintiff has made no designation, a designation that the case is complex. CASE TYPES AND EXAMPLES
Auto Tort Contract
Auto (22)-Personal Injury/Property Breach of Contract/Warranty (06) Provisionally Complex Civil Litigation (Cal.
Damage/Wrongful Death Breach of Rental/Lease Rules of Court Rules 3.400-3.403)

Uninsured Motorist (46) (if the Contract (not unlawful detainer Antitrust/Trade Regulation (03)
case involves an uninsured or wrongful eviction) Construction Defect (10)

motorist claim subject to Contract/Warranty Breach-Seller Claims Involving Mass Tort (40)
arbitration, check this item Plaintiff (not fraud or negligence) Securities Litigation (28)
instead of Auto) Negligent Breach of Contract/ Environmental/Toxic Tort (30)
Other PI/PD/WD (Personal Injury/ Warranty Insurance Coverage Claims
Property Damage/Wrongful Death) Other Breach of Contract/Warranty (arising from provisionally complex

Tort Collections (e.g., money owed, open case type listed above) (41)
Asbestos (04) book accounts) (09) Enforcement of Judgment
Asbestos Property Damage Collection Case-Seller Plaintiff Enforcement of Judgment (20)
Asbestos Personal Injury/ Other Promissory Note/Collections Abstract of Judgment (Out of
Case County) Wrongful Death
Product Liability (not asbestos or Insurance Coverage (not provisionally Confession of Judgment (non-
complex) (18) domestic relations)
toxic/environmental) (24) Medical Malpractice (45) Auto Subrogation. Sister State Judgment
Medical Malpractice- Other Coverage Administrative Agency Award
Physicians & Surgeons Other Contract (37) (not unpaid taxes)

Other Professional Health Care Contractual Fraud Petition/Certification of Entry of Judgment on Unpaid Taxes Malpractice Other Contract Dispute
Other PI/PD/WD (23) Real Property Other Enforcement of Judgment
Eminent Domain/Inverse Case
Premises Liability (e.g., slip
and fall) Condemnation (14) Miscellaneous Civil Complaint
Intentional Bodily Injury/PD/WD Wrongful Eviction (33) RICO (27)
(e.g., assault, vandalism) Other Real Property (e.g., quiet title) (26) Other Complaint (not specitied
Intentional Infliction of Writ of Possession of Real Property above) (42) Declaratory Relief Only Emotional Distress Mortgage. Foreclosure
Negligent Infliction of Quiet Title Injunctive Relief Only (non-
Other Real Property (not eminent harassment) Emotional Distress
Other PI/PD/WD domain, landlord/tenant, or Mechanics Lien
foreclosure) Other Commercial Complaint Non-PI/PD/WD (Other) Tort
Business Tort/Unfair Business Unlawful Detainer Case (non-tort/non-complex) Other Civil Complaint Practice (07) Commercial (31) (non-tort/non-complex) Civil Rights (e.g., discrimination, Residential (32) Miscellaneous Civil Petition
false arrest) (not civil Drugs (38) (if the case involves illegal Partnership and Corporate
harassment) (08) drugs, check this item; otherwise, report as Commercial or Residential) Governance (21) Defamation (e.g., slander, libel) Judicial Review Other Petition (not specified (13)
Fraud (16) Asset Forfeiture (05) above) (43) Civil Harassment Intellectual Property (19) Petition Re: Arbitration Award (11) Workplace Violence Professional Negligence (25) Writ of Mandate (02)
Legal Malpractice Writ-Administrative Mandamus Elder/Dependent Adult
Writ-Mandamus on Limited Court Abuse
Other Professional Malpractice
(not medical or legal) Case Malter Election Contest
Writ-Other Limited Court Case Petition for Name Change Other Non-PI/PD/WD Tort (35) Petition for Relief From Late
Employment Review
Wrongful Termination (36) Other Judicial Review (39) Claim
Review of Health Officer Order Other Civil Petition
Other Employment (15) Nolice of Appeal-Labor
-Commissioner Appeals
CM-010 [Rev. July 1, 2007] CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET Page 2 of 2

0000o SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE

BANNING 311 E. Ramsey St., Banning, CA 92220 BL.YTHE 265 N. Broadway, Blythe, CA 92225 CORONA 505 S. Buena Vista, Rm. 201, Corona, CA 92882 M MURRIETA 30755-D Auld Rd., Suite 1226, Murrieta, CA 92563

HEMET 880 N. Slate St., Hemet, CA 92543 PALM SPRINGS 3255 E. Tahquilz Canyon Way, Palm Springs, CA 92262 RIVERSIDE 4050 Main St., Riverside, CA 92501 È TEMECULA 41002 County Center Dr., 1/100, Temecula, CA MORENO VALLEY 13800 Heacock St., Sle. D201, Moreno Valley, CA 92553 92591

ATTORNEY OR PARTY WITHOUT ATTORNEY (Name, Slate Bar Number a Address) Matt H. Morris, Esq. RI-CI032

Law Office of Matt H. Morris FOR COURT USE ONLY

47040 Washington Street, Suite 3201 La Quinta, CA 92253
TELEPHONE NO: 760-777.7941
E-MAIL ADDRESS (Oplional):
ATTORNEY FOR (Name) Lynn Kincaid, an individual; Samuel Kyle, an individual
PLAINTIFF/PETITIONER: Lynn Kincaid, an individual; Samuel Kyle, an individual

DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT: City of Indio, a Municipal Corporation; and the City Council of the City of Indio etal CASE NUMBER:

CERTIFICATE OF COUNSEL

The undersigned certifies that this matter should be tried or heard in the court identified above for the reasons specified below:

X The action arose in the zip code of: 92201

X The action concerns real property located in the zip code of: 92201

0 The Defendant resides in the zip code of:

For more information on where actions should be filed in the Riverside County Superior Courts, please refer to Local Rule 1.0015 at www.riverside:courts.ca.gov.

certify (or declare) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.

Date August 9, 2021

:

Matt H. Morris, Esq.
TYPE OR PRINT NAME OF O ATTORNEY CI PARTY MAKING DECLARATION) (SIGNATURE)

Approved for Mandalory Use • paue

Riverside Superior Court RI-CI032 (Rev. 00/15/13) Page 1 of

(Reformalled 01/07/19) CERTIFICATE OF COUNSEL Local Rule 1.00 rivarside.courts.ca.gov/localfrms/locaffrms.shu

1
4 SUM-100
SUMMONS FOR COURT USE ONLY
(CITACION JUDICIAL) (SOLO PARA USO DE LA CORTE)

NOTICE TO DEFENDANT: City of Indio, a Municipal Corporation; and the City Council of the City of Indio, GHA Companies, an Entity of Unknown (AVISO AL DEMANDADO): Origin, and Kraemer Land Company, Inc., a California Corporalion, and DOES through 20 inclusive
YOU ARE BEING SUED BY PLAINTIFF: (LO ESTÁ DEMANDANDO EL DEMANDANTE):
Lynn Kincaid, an individual; Saumel Kyle, an individual
NOTICE! You have been sued. The court may decide against you without your being heard unless you respond within 30 days. Read the information below.
You have 30 CALENDAR DAYS afte: this summons and legal papers are served on you to file a written response at this court and have a copy served on the plainliff. A letter or phone call will not protect you. Your written response must be in proper legal form if you want the court to hear your case. There may be a court form that you can use for your response. You can find these court forms and more information at lhe California Courts Online Self-Help Center (www.courtinfo.ca.gov/seifhelp), your counly law library, or the courthouse nearest you. If you cannot pay the filing fee. ask Ihe courl clerk for a fee waiver form. If you do not file your response on time, you may lose the case by default. and your wages, money, and property may [be laken without further warning from the court. There are other legal requirements. You may want to call an attorney right away. If you do not know an altorney, you may want lo call an attorney referral service. If you cannot afford an allorney, you may be eligible for free legal services from a nonprofit legal services program. You can locate These nonprofit groups at the California egal Services Web site (www.lawhelpcalifornia.org), the California Courts Online Self-Help Center (www.courtinfo.ca.gov/selthelp), or by contacting your local court or county bar association. NOTE: The court has a statulory lien for waived fees and cosls on any setliement or arbitralion award of $10,000 or more in a civil case. The court's lien must be paid before the court will dismiss the case. ¡AVISO! Lo han demandado.
Icontinuación. Si no responde dentro de 30 días, la corte puede decidir en su contra sin escuchar su versión. Lea la información a
Tiene 30 DIAS DE CALENDARIO despuês de que le entreguen esta citación y papeles legales para presentar una respuesta por escrito en esta corte y hacer que se entregue una copia al demandante. Una carta o una llamada lelefónica no lo protegen. Su respuesta por escrilo tiene que estar en formalo legal correcto si desea que procesen su caso en la corte. Es posible que haya un formulario que usted pueda usar para su respuesla. Puede encontrar estos formularios de la corte más información en el Centro de Ayuda de las Cortes de California (www.sucorte.ca.gov), en la biblioteca de leyes de su condado o en la corte le que le quede más cerca. Si no puede pagar la cuola de presentación, pida al secrelario de ¡a corte que le dé un formulario de exención de pago de cuotas. Si no presenta su respuesta a tiempo, puede perder el caso por incumplimiento y la corte le podrä quilar su sueldo, dinero y bienes sin más advertencia. Hay otros requisilos legales. Es recomendable que llame a un abogado inmedialamente. Si no conoce a un abogado, puede llamar a un servicio de remisión abogados. Si no puede pagar a un abogado, es posible que cumpla con los requisitos para obtener servicios legales gratuitos de un programa de servicios legales sin fines de lucro. Puede encontrar eslos grupos sin fines de lucro en el silio web de California Legal Services, (www.lawhelpcalilornia.org), en el Centro de Ayuda de las Cortes de California, (www.sucorte.ca.gov) o poniéndose en confacto con la corte o el colegio de abogados locales. AVISO: Por ley, la corte tiene derecho a reclamar las cuolas y los costos exentos por imponer un gravamen sobre cualquier recuperación de $10,000 ó más de valor recibida mediante un acuerdo o una concesión de arbitraje en un caso de derecho civil. Tiene que pagar el gravamen de la corle anies de que la core pueda desechar el caso.
The name and address of the court is:
(El nombre y dirección de la corle es): 3255 East Tahquitz-Canyon Way CASE NUMBER: (Número del Caso):
Palm Springs, CA 92262
The name, address, and telephone number of plaintiffs attorney, or plaintiff without an attorney, is: (El nombre, la dirección y el número de teléfono del abogado del demandante, o del demandante que no tiene abogado, es): Law Office of Matt H. Morris, 47040 Washington Street, Suite 3201, La Quinta, CA 92253 760.777.7941 DATE: Clerk, by Deputy (Fecha) (Secrelario) (Adjunto) (For proof of service of this summons, use Proof of Service of Summons (form POS-010).) (Para prueba de entrega de esta citatión use el formulario Proof of Service of Summons, (POS-010)).
[SEAL) NOTICE TO THE PERSON SERVED: You are served
1. as an individual defendant.
2. as the person sued under the fictitious name of (specify):
.

3. - on behalf of (specify):
under: CCP 416.10 (corporation) CCP 416.60 (minor) •CCP 416.20 (defunct corporation) CCP 416.70 (conservatee)
CCP 416.40 (association or partnership) CCP 416.90 (authorized person)
other (specify):
4. by personal delivery on (date): Page 1 ol1
Form Adopled for Mandalory Use Judicial Council of California SUMMONS Code of Civil Procedure 55 412.20, 455
SUM-100 |Rev. July 1, 2009) www.couns.ca.gov

DECEIVER • AU 3 2021 1
BY:_______._-.-
AU 3 2021 PPCRT YED

BY:____________