LAW OFFICES OF
PERRY, TOHNSON, ANDERSON,
MILLER & MOSKOWITZ LLP
438 First Street, 4th Floor, Santa Rosa, CA 95401

William D. Anderson
David E Beach June 5, 2020
Isaac M. Gradman
John E. Johnson*
Marla Keenan-Rivero* Xavier Becerra
Scott A. Lewis Office of the Attorney General
Michael G. Miller P.O. Box 944255

Lawrence A. Moskowitz Sacramento, CA 94244-2550
Jeremy L. Olsan
Leslie R. Perry Re: The Committee for Education v. Sonoma Valley Unified School District
Burton H. Fohrman Sonoma County Superior Court Case No. SCV-266424
Roger J. Illsley Dear Mr. Becerra:
Daphne A. Beletsis
Mary Jane Schneider Pursuant to CEQA section 21167.7 and section 388 of the Code of Civil
Sheila S. Craig Procedure, enclosed please find the following pleading in the above referenced matter:
Deborah S. Bull T
Oscar A. Pardo Petition for Writ of Mandate;
Martin L. Hirsch Notice of Preparation of Record of Proceeding; and
Megan J. Lightfoot Proof of Service of Notice of Intent to file CEQA Petition.
Nicole M. Jaffee
Kristin Mattiske-Nicholls Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Traci L. Carrillo
E. Page Allinson Very truly yours/

Chad O. Dorr
Sarah Jane T.C. Truong Vats Has

Kelsey L. O'Rourke Kate Hutchins, Secretary to
MARTIN L. HIRSCH
Certified Specialist
Family Law :kh
T Appellate Law Enclosures
tEstate Planning, Trust and
Probate Law
The State Bar of California
Bnard of Legal Specialization

TELEPHONE
(707) 525•8800

FACSIMILE
(707) 545-8242

E-MAIL
hutchins@
perrylaw.net

Leslie R. Perry, Bar No. 62390 ELECTRONICALLY FILED Martin L. Hirsch, Bar No. 255718 Superior Court of California 2 PERRY. JOHNSON, ANDERSON, County of Sonomal MILLER & MOSKOWITZ, LLP 6/4/2020 11:14 AM 3 438 1st Street, 4th Floor Arlene D. Junior, Clerk of the Court Santa Rosa, California 95401 By: Alexandria Hankes, Deputy Clerk 4 Telephone: (707) 525-8800
Facsimile: (707) 545-8242 Email: perry@perrylaw.net
o hirsch@perrylaw.net

Attorneys for Petitioner
7 THE COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATION

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 COUNTY OF SONOMA

10

11 THE COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATION, Case No. SCV-266424

12 Petitioner, PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE "NOSH3GNY'NOSNHOr'AH8Ed MILLER & MOSKOWITZ LLP 13 V.
California Environmental Quality Act 14 SONOMA VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL [CEQA] DISTRICT and DOES through 25, 15 inclusive.

16 Respondent.

17 SONOMA VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL,

18 Real Party in Interest.

19

20 The Petitioner, The Committee for Education (*Petitioner"), alleges as follows:

21 1. Petitioner hereby petitions this Court for a Writ of Mandate, directed to the

22 Sonoma Valley Unified School District ("Respondent" or "District") and Sonoma Valley High

23 School ("School"). Petitioner challenges District's May 5, 2020 approval of the Sonoma

24 Valley High School Athletic Fields Renovation Project ("Project").

25 2. Petitioner, the Committee for Education is an organization of concerned

26 neighbors who live in the neighborhood immediately adjacent to the Project site. Petitioner has

27 a direct and substantial beneficial interest in ensuring Respondent complies with the laws

28 relating to environmental protection, particularly CEQA. Petitioner is affected by

PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 Respondent's failure to comply with CEQA. Petitioner and its members' environmental,

2 aesthetic will be severely injured if the adoption of the Project is not set aside pending full
00 7 00 N compliance with CEQA. Petitioner brings this petition on behalf of all others similarly situated
who are too numerous to be named and brought before this Court as petitioners. Petitioner is
within the class of persons and entities beneficially interested in, and aggrieved by, the acts of
Respondent as alleged below. Accordingly, Petitioner has standing to sue.
JURISDICTION AND VENUE

8 3. This Court has jurisdiction over the matters alleged in this Petition pursuant to

9 Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, and Public Resources Code section 21168. In the

10 alternative, the Court has jurisdiction pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 and

11 Public Resources Code section 21168.5.

Venue for this action properly lies in the Superior Court for the State of PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, 12 4.
d11ZIIMOXSOW 2 H37W1Y t California in and for the County of Sonoma pursuant to section 393, 394, and 395 of the Code
of Civil Procedure.
15 FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

16 5. The Project, which is proposed to be located on approximately 16.8 acres of the
17 Sonoma Valley High School Campus, located in Sonoma, California, includes: (a) renovation

18 and reorganization of the existing track and field, softball and baseball fields, and basketball

19 court facilities; (b) addition of bleachers to accommodate 1,500 spectators; (c) addition of a

20 public address system; (d) addition of LED ficld lighting; (e) construction of a

21 biofiltration/detention basin; (f) utility connections; (g) addition of six ADA parking spaces;

22 (h) replacement of existing bollards and gates with new EVA and pedestrian gates; and (i)

23 addition of emergency vehicle access.

24 6. The Project will be used for sporting events, graduation ceremonies and other

25 nighttime events. The Draft EIR estimates that there will be fifty such events annually that

26 utilize the field lighting, but no limitation is placed on the number of events that will utilize the

27 field lights or the public address system.

28 7. There is substantial evidence in the record that the Project may have significant
2
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

a impacts on the environment during construction activity, which will remove habitat, and

2 during operation of the Project, which will increase noise, light and glare within the Project
00 710000 and surrounding areas.

8. Respondent's action in approving the Final EIR for the Project constitutes a
violation of CFQA in that Respondent failed to proceed in a manner required by law and their

decision to approve the Project is not by substantial evidence. Based upon substantial evidence
in the record, the Project may have a significant impact on the environment including
significant impacts on special-state plants, birds, and bats.

9 EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

10 9. Petitioner participated actively throughout the administrative process that led to

11 the District's decision to certify the Final EIR for the Project. The District's rules and

12
PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, regulations do not provide for an administrative appeals procedure for Petitioner to challenge
TI ZLIMONSON  SETIN 13 the District's decision. By submitting its comment letters, copies of which are attached as

14 Exhibits A and B, by specifically describing in those letters deficiencies in the draft EIR,

15 Petitioner raised the issues described in this petition and thereby exhausted its administrative

16 remedies pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21177.

17 NOTICE

18 10. On June3, 2020, Petitioner served a notice on District informing District of

19 Petitioner's intent to file a petition for writ of mandate challenging District's certification of

20 the Final EIR and approving the Project, as required by Public Resources Code sections 21167

21 and 21167.5. A copy of Petitioner's notice and associated proof of service is attached as

22 Exhibit C and is incorporated herein by reference.

23 ATTORNEY'S FEES

24 11. In pursuing this action, which involves the enforcement of important rights

25 affecting the public interest, Petitioner will confer a substantial benefit on the public.

26 Therefore, Petitioner is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney's fees pursuant to Code of

27 Civil Procedure section 1021.5.

28 12. Petitioner brings this action on the basis, among others, of Government Code

3
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

2 section 800, and other applicable laws, which award Petitioner's attorney's fees in actions to

3 overturn agency decisions that are arbitrary and capricious, such as the decisions in question in

this action.

INADEQUATE REMEDY AT LAW - STAY AND INJUNCTION

13.
o In its comment letters to the District, Petitioner requested that certification of

7 the Final EIR and approval of the Project be deferred until an adequate monitoring and

8 mitigation plan is developed and implemented. The District refused to take such actions, and
instead certified the Final EIR and approved the Project.

9 14.

10 Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1085 and 1094.5(g), the Court

11 may stay or enjoin the operation of any administrative decision or order involved in this

proceeding.

PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, 12 15.
MILLER & MOSKOWITZ LLP 13 A stay or injunction of District's and real parties' in interest actions relating to

14 the Project would not be against the public interest because District is required under CEQA to

15 conduct an adequate environmental review of the Project before taking any actions to approve

16 it, because construction and operation of the Project could have significant environmental

17 impacts, and because neither District no real parties in interest will be harmed by the Court's
issuance of a stay or an injunction.

18 16.

19 In light of District's CEQA violations in certifying the Final EIR and approving

20 the Project, any action regarding the construction or operation of the Project will irreparably

21 harm the environment and pose a significant threat to the environment in and around the

22 Project site. Petitioner has no adequate remedy at law for this irreparable harm. Therefore, a

23 stay or preliminary and permanent injunction should issue in this case restraining District from

24 taking any additional actions to issue permits for or commence construction of the Project and

25 restraining District and real parties in interest from undertaking any Project construction
activities until District has complied with CEQA.

26 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION

27

28 (Writ of Mandate - Violation of CEQA)

17. District realleges and incorporates by this reference Paragraphs through 10

PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 4

above as though the same were fully set forth herein.
N m 18. The California Environmental Quality Act, codified at Public Resources Code
sections 21000-21189.3 ("CEQA"), requires for any proposed project that may have a
significant effect on the environment, that the CEQA lead agency (the District, in this
w case)prepare an environmental impact report ("EIR") (Pub. Res. Code § 21082.2(d)). The
O purposes of an EIR are: (a) "to provide public agencies and the public in general with detailed

7 information about the effect which a proposed project is likely to have on the environment;"

8 (b) "to list ways in which the significant effects of such a project might be minimized;" and (c)

9 "to indicate alternatives to such a project." (Pub. Res. Code 21061.)

10 19. Under CEQA, a lead agency must identify all significant effects on the

11 environment caused by a proposed project that cannot be avoided. (Pub. Res. Code §

12 21100(b).) It must describe and evaluate feasible measures for minimizing or avoiding a
d11ZIMOXSOW 9 XETIN PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, 13 project's direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts on the environment. (Pub. Res. Code

14 21100(b); Cal. Code of Regs., tit. 14 § 15126.4.) A lead agency must provide good faith,

15 reasoned analysis in response to comments received about the EIR. (Cal. Code of Regs., tit. 14

16 § 15088(c).) The EIR must contain specific response to comments that raise specific questions

17 about significant issues.

18 20. The EIR fails to provide public agencies and the general public with detailed

19 information about the effect the Project is likely to have on special-status plants. The EIR

20 addresses approximately two acres of fallow annual grassland that is potentially suitable for a

21 number of special-status plants. However, protocol surveys were not performed during the

22 June blooming period noted in the EIR despite the environmental review for the Project having

23 commenced in January of 2019. As such, the EIR fails to provide adequate information as to

24 whether there are special-status plants on the property, even thought it was feasible to conduct

25 a survey that would have provided such needed information.

26 21. The EIR also fails to identify ways in which the significant effects of the

27 Project might be mitigated. The mitigation measures related to special-status plants set forth in

28 the EIR constitute deferred mitigation and are inadequate on that basis. The EIR provides that

5
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 a botanist is to conduct a survey during the appropriate time and prepare a report summarizing

2 the results. If a special-status plant is found, the report is to recommend "location specific

3 avoidance measures" and if avoidance is not feasible, the report is to make recommendations

4 as to the need or feasibility of relocation or collecting seeds. If relocation or seed collection is
4o appropriate and feasible, the report is to indicate an on- or off-site for relocation or seed
storage and propagation at a nursery.
7 22. This measure is insufficient in that is fails to inform the public and

8 decisionmakers of the special-status plants that may be found at the Project location. Further, it

9 fails to identify the appropriate time of year for the survey to be conducted, state protocols for

10 the conduct of the study, define "location specific avoidance," provide measures for

11 determining feasibility at any stage of the Project, or provide evidence of an appropriate on-

12 site or off-site location for relocation or seed storage. PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, d11 Z1IMOMSOW g 3TI 13 23. The Draft EIR identifies special-status birds, including Bank Swallows,

14 Swainson's Hawks, and "many other migratory birds" that have nesting habitat within and

15 adjacent to the Project site. The Draft EIR further provides that the Project may have

16 significant impacts on the nesting habitat of said special-status birds. Specifically, removal of

17 four tress and general construction activities, including increase in ambient sound levels from

18 construction, could disturb nests, cause nest abandonment and cause direct mortality to eggs

19 and chicks.

20 24. The EIR states that an increase in ambient sound levels from construction

21 activities may have significant impact on the nesting habitat of special-status birds. Despite

22 acknowledging the potential significant impacts of an increase in ambient sound levels from

23 construction activities, the EIR fails to address the potential impacts from the increase sound

24 level from the public address system and increasc of large of events and gatherings that will

25 result from use of the Project. On that basis, the EIR fails to provide adequate information

26 about the effect the Project is likely to have on the environment.

27 25. The mitigation measures related to special-status birds set forth in the EIR are

28 inadequate as they fail to establish protocol and specific criteria for the establishment of

6
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 buffers to protect nests. The mitigation measures further provide that upon discovery of an
N m active nest, an ornithologist will monitor the nest once per week to determine whether the
birds are being disturbed. However, this exposes the nest to potential disruption and harm for a
seven-day period before buffers are implemented. Moreover, the specific mitigation measures
N to be taken upon discovery of a special-status bird are not identified. Instead, such specifics are

6 to be determined at a later date. This constitutes an improper deferred mitigation.

7 26. The mitigation measures related to special-status bats also constitute deferred

8 mitigation and are improper on that basis. The mitigation measures call for a bat biologist to

9 conduct a Habitat Assessment, which is to identify suitable "performance measures" for

10 avoiding impacts to roosts.

11 27. The mitigation measure does not set forth specifications for the performance

12 measures. The only two mitigations identified are to consult with the California Department of PERRY JOHNSON, ANDERSON, d11 ZLIMONSOW  SETHN 13 Fish and Wildlife and "phased removal of trees" where trees are to be cut down over a two-day

14 period to encourage roosting bats to not return on day two. This is not an appropriate

15 mitigation measure if the is a tree is found to be a roosting area for bats as it will simply result in

16 the destruction of critical habitat without providing suitable protection for the Pallid Bat

17 inhabiting the roosting area.

18 28. The Draft EIR states with respect to Pallid Bats that "[t]hey rely primarily on

19 passive hearing to locate prey moving on the ground." The EIR does not discuss whether the

20 new public address system and other ambient noise from the 50 events anticipated per year

21 will interfere with the Pallid Bats' hunting ability. As such, the EIR fails to provide detailed

22 information about the effect the Project is likely to have on the Pallid Bat population.

23 29. The Draft EIR further describes Pallid Bats as "light averse." The EIR

24 describes the potential impacts related to lighting as less than significant finding that, "the

25 design of the lights, infrequent use, and ample foraging areas along Nathanson Creek.... the

26 nighttime lighting is not anticipated to impact the foraging ability of bats." However, the glare

27 impacts shown on Figure 3.1-1 show glare up to 250 candela extending to the property line.

28 The conclusion that the impacts from light are less than significant appears to be inconsistent
7
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 with the EIR finding that the bats are light averse. The impacts of the glare and light on the

2 Pallid Bats from the Project are potentially significant. Accordingly, the EIR should identify
c measures to mitigate those significant effects.

30. Finally, the Project description violates CEQA because it is vague, uncertain,
and unstable. Specifically, the EIR fails to describe the project's technical, economic, and
environmental characteristics, or to describe the intended uses of the EIR. The EIR also fails to
adequately describe the objectives sought by the proposed project.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF 8

3 o Wherefore, Petitioner prays for the following relief:
1. For a peremptory writ of mandate directing District: (1) to vacate and set aside it
11 certification of the EIR and it approval of the Project; (b) to vacate and set aside its
12 filing of the notice of determination for the Project; and (c) to review the Project in 'NOSMIONY 'NOSNHOr'AHUEd T1 ZLIMONSON 8 82TIM os its entirety and revise and recirculate the EIR, to prepare a legally adequate EIR
14 and otherwise to comply with CEQA and all other applicable state, federal, and
15 local laws, regulations, ordinances, and policies in reviewing the Project;
16 2. For an order staying the effects of the District's certification of the Final EIR and

17 possible approvals related to any component of the Project pending the entry of

18 judgment or filing of an appeal in this action;

19 3. For issuance of temporary restraining order, and a preliminary and permanent

20 injunction restraining and prohibiting the District from carrying out or engaging in
58831 any action related to the Project that could result in any change or alteration in the
physical environment, until District has complied with CEQA and all other
applicable laws;
Petitioner's costs of suit in this action; 4. For an order directing District to pay
25 5. For an order directing District to pay Petitioner's reasonable attorney's fees; and
26 ///

27

28 /11

8
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

4 N m• 6. For such other and further relief as the Court deems just and proper.

PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON,
MILLER & MOSKOWITZ, LLP

By:
LESLIE R. PERRY

Attorneys for Petitioner o DATED: June 4. 2020

MARTIN L. HIRSCH

THE COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATION 7

8

5 0 11
12
d11 ZIMOMSOW 3 83TTA PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, 13
14
025∞
19

20
H8 23

24

25

26

27

28

PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

EXHIBIT A

LAW OFFICES OF
PERRY, LOHNSON, ANDERSON, MILLER & MOSKOWITZ LLP
438 First Street, 4th Floor, Santa Rosa, CA 95401
William D. Anderson
David F. Beach April 29, 2020
Isaac M. Gradman
John E. Johnson* VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL ONLY
Marla Keenan-Rivero*
Scott A. Lewis Bruce Abbott, Associate Superintendent
Michael G. Miller Sonoma Valley Unified School District
Lawrence A. Moskowitz* 17850 Railroad Avenue
Jeremy L. Olsan |Sonoma, CA 95476
Leslie R. Perry Email: babbott@sonomaschools.org
Burton H. Fohrman
Roger J. Illsley Re: Inadequacy of EIR

Daphne A. Beletsis Dear Mr. Abbott:
Mary Jane Schneider
Sheila S. Craig* We once again write on behalf of an organization of concerned citizens who
Deborah S. Bull F loppose the Sonoma Valley High School Athletic Fields Renovation Project. The name
Oscar A. Pardo of the organization is Committee For Education. It is our client's position that the EIR is
Martin L. Hirsch inadequate and cannot be certified.
Megan J. Lightfoot
Nicole M. Jaffee Our comment letter to the DEIR specifically addressed the inadequacies of the biological mitigation measures. The response contained in the FEIR fails to cure the Kristin Mattiske-Nicholls
Traci L. Carrillo fundamental flaws noted. Moreover, the proposed "clarifications" added to the

E. Page Allinson mitigation measures fall far short of the mark.

Chad O. Dorr The Mitigation Measure related to special status plants remains a classic example Sarah Jane T.C. Truong of a deferred mitigation and a practice that has been repeatedly condemned by CEQA Kelsey L. O'Rourke  appellate court decisions. As we pointed out in our comment letter, this measure

Certified Specialist instructs that a botanist is to conduct a survey during the appropriate time and prepare a
Family Law report summarizing the results. If a special-status plant is found, the report is to
Appellate Law recommend "location specific avoidance measures" and if avoidance is not feasible, the
The State Bar of California
Board of Legal Specialization report is to make recommendations as to the need or feasibility of relocation or collecting

TELEPHONE seeds. If relocation or seed collection is appropriate and feasible, the report shall indicate
(707) 525-8800 an on- or off-site for relocation or seed storage.

FACSIMILE The public and decisionmakers have no idea what plants may be found at the
(707) 545•8242 Sonoma Valley location. The appropriate time for the survey is not identified. There are no protocols for the conduct of the study. "Location specific avoidance" is not defined.
B-MAIL There are no measures for determining feasibility at any stage of the process. There is no
perry@
perrylaw.net evidence that an on-site or off-site location is available or appropriate. The "clarified" mitigation states, without evidentiary support, that there is suitable habitat between the proposed bioretention area and the Ag Center. That is a curious, unsupported conclusion since the EIR has not identified the actual special status species that might require

Bruce Abbott, Associate Superintendent Sonoma Valley Unified School District
April 29, 2020
Page 2

relocation. If it is suitable, why are there not plants there now? If there are plants there now, can the area support relocation?
P The very recent case of Save the Agoura Cornell Knoll v. City of Agoura Hills (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 665 demonstrates the inadequacy of the special status plants mitigation measure. In Save the Agoura there were two special status plants that had been identified in an actual study. The mitigation measure stated that, prior to the
A issuance of a grading permit, a qualified plant ecologist would perform surveys for listed
species during the blooming period from April to June. If a state or federally listed
species was found, avoidance was required unless the project applicant provided
M substantial documentation that avoidance would not be feasible or would compromise the objectives of the project. Avoidance was defined as a minimum 200-foot setback unless an active maintenance plan was implemented. If avoidance was not feasible, a
8 qualified ecologist was to prepare a restoration plan involving salvage and replanting in coordination with applicable federal, state, and local agencies. The plan was to identify
M the number of plants to be replanted and the methods to be used for onsite preservation and include a monitoring program to measure the success of the effort. The required level of success was defined as minimum of three consecutive years of growth of a
population equal to or greater than that which would be lost due to the project. The restoration plan was to be submitted to the City for approval prior to the issuance of a grading permit and implemented prior to completion of the project. If approved, the plan required annual monitoring and reporting for a five-year period.
The measure was found inadequate for many reasons. First, in adopting each of the plant mitigation measures, the City relied on surveys conducted at the project site in 2007, 2008, December 2013, and July 2014. The California Department of Fish and Wildlifc (CDFW) noted that these surveys were outdated, and that the most recent one was done in the summer during an ongoing drought, According to the CDFW, botanical surveys that are older than two years and performed in conditions that do not maximize detection "may overlook the presence or actual density of some special status plant species on the [p]roject site." The CDFW therefore recommended that "additional botanical surveys be conducted at the appropriate time of year with proper weather
conditions and the results incorporated into the environmental document for review and
comment." Here, of course, no studies have been conducted.
In addition, in Save the Agoura the mitigation measure deferred formulation of certain components without setting specific performance criteria to ensure that these measures, as implemented, would be effective. For instance, it mandated a 200-foot minimum setback to avoid dudleya and pentachaeta plants found at the site unless "avoidance would not be feasible" or an "active maintenance plan is implemented for the known occurrence." Yet the measure did not specify performance standards for determining the feasibility of avoidance or for evaluating the efficacy of any maintenance plan that may be adopted in lieu of the minimum buffer zone. Additionally,

Bruce Abbott, Associate Superintendent Sonoma Valley Unified School District
April 29, 2020
Page 3

standards for measuring the success of the restoration plan, did not provide for any feasible alternatives if those salvage and replanting efforts failed. Likewise, here the
P mitigation defines success, but no alternative if not achieved. In Preserve Wild Santee v.
City of Santee (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 260, 281, the Court noted that while the EIR contained measures to mitigate the loss of habitat, it did not describe the actions anticipated for active management. Nor did the EIR specify performance standards or provide other guidelines for the active management requirement. The EIR here is
A lequally defective.
Save the Agoura also confirmed that a deferred study is acceptable only if there is
M showing that it was infeasible to perform the survey prior to project approval. This basic CEQA requirement was addressed in our comment letter citing San Joaquin Raptor
& Rescue Center v. County of Merced (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 645 (See also, Sacramento Old City Assn. V. City Council of Sacramento (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1011, at p. 1028- 1029).
M The mitigation measure designed to address nesting birds remains CEQA non- compliant. Adding minimum 250-foot buffer does not cure the defects cited in our comment letter. Reliance on Save Panoche Valley v. San Benito County (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 503, is misplaced. For example, that EIR outlined several mitigation measures to avoid impact with biological species such as the blunt-nosed leopard lizard. A pre-construction survey of the project site in accordance with DFG protocols was required. In contrast, here there are no protocols for the survey. Save Panoche required implementing a 22-acre buffer zone for each individual blunt-nosed leopard lizard. The EIR explained that the 22-acre buffer zone was calculated as being the largest home range size of a blunt-nosed leopard lizard as compiled by a biological study. The EIR further provided a mitigation measure that if a blunt-nosed leopard lizard was found in
the construction site, all construction would cease and the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service and the DFG would be contacted. Here construction does not cease.
An undefined buffer is established at some point. And, in contrast to Save Panoche, mitigation measure here leaves virtually every significant detail to be determined at a
later date. There is no evidentiary support for the conclusion that this mitigation measure would reduce impacts to insignificance.
For all the reasons cited above, the mitigation measure directed to endangered bats is flawed, and the revisions contained in the FEIR do not provide a cure. The
|proposed Habitat Assessment provides no specific protocols or measures to assure that the impacts will not be significant. There is no evidence to support the conclusion that "phased removal of limbs" over a two-day period will avoid impacts.
The biological mitigation measures so blatantly violate basic and long established CEQA requirements that it is surprising that the District has chosen to proceed with the EIR without undertaking a serious effort of achieve compliance. Our client urges the

Bruce Abbott, Associate Superintendent
Sonoma Valley Unified School District
April 29, 2020
Page 4

District to carefully consider the prudent path of conducting the required studies and developing meaningful mitigation measures. The path chosen here appears to be
P designed to avoid the issue rather than a good faith attempt to address environmental impacts. This is a path not looked upon favorably by the courts.
Your consideration of these issues is appreciated.

Very truly yours,
A
M Leslie R. Perry

8 LRP:kh

M

EXHIBIT B

LAW OFFICES OF
PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON. MILLER & MOSKOWITZ U.P
438 First Street, 4th Floor, Santa Rosa, CA 95401
Williau D. Anderson
David F. Beach December 2, 2019
Isaac M. Gradman
John E. Johnson* VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL AND U.S. MAIL
Marla Keenan-Rivero
Scott A. Lewis Bruce Abbott, Associate Superintendent
Michael G. Miller Sonoma Valley Unified School District
Lawrence A. Moskowitz 17850 Railroad Avenue
Jeremy L. Olsan |Sonoma, CA: 95476
Leslio R. Perry Email babbott@sonomaschools.org"

Burton H. Fohrman
Roger J. Illsley Re: Comments Re Biological Impacts

Daphne A. Beletsis Dear Mr. Abbott:
Mary Jane Schneider
Sheila S. Craig* This submittal is on behalf of an organization of concerned citizens who oppose
Deborali S. Bull Fi the Sonoma Valley High School Athletic Fields Renovation Project.
Oscar A. Pardo
Martin L. Hirsch The mitigation measures identified in the DEIR are fundamentally inadequate
Megan J. Liglitfoot and violate basic CEQA requirements. The DEIR finds, correctly, that there are
Amy S. Winters potentially significant impacts from the Project to special-status plants, nesting birds and
Nicole M. Jaffce bats. Therefore, the District is required to mitigate those impacts to the extent feasible.
Kristin Mattiske-Nicholls It is the task of the EIR to identify specific mitigation measures.

Traci L. Carrillo
E. Page Allinson Special-Status Plants: The DEIR addresses approximately two acres of fallow,
annual grassland that is potentially suitable for a number of special status plants.
Chad O. Dorr Without explanation it is revealed that protocol surveys were not conducted during a Sarah Jane T.C. Truong time when special-status plants could be identified. This is curious since the DEIR Kelsey L. O'Rourke  specifically notes that the blooming period is in June. The environmental review for this Project commenced in January.
Certified Specialist
* Family Law
E Appellate Law In face of this potentially significant impact, the DEIR proposes a mitigation
The State Bar of Califoruin
Boardt of Legal Spccialization measure (Bio-1a). This measure instructs that a botanist is to conduct a survey during the appropriate time and prepare a report summarizing the results. If a special-status
TELEPHONE plant is found, the report is to recommend "location specific avoidance measures" and if (707) 525-8800 lavoidance is not feasible, the report is to make recommendations as to the need or

FACSIMILE feasibility of relocation or collecting seeds. If relocation or seed collection is appropriate
(707) 545•8242 and feasible, the report shall indicate an on- or off-site for relocation or seed storage..

E-MAIL In summary, the reader of this DEIR does not know whether there are special-
perry@ status plants on the property, even though a survey was feasible. More importantly, the
perrylaw.net reader has no idea what will occur if a special-status plant is present. Will it be avoided?
How will it be avoided? What are the protocols or performance standards for avoidance? How is it determined whether avoidance is feasible? If avoidance is not feasible, the mitigation measure allows for a decision to be made as to whether there is a "need" to IS

Bruce Abbott
Sonoma Valley Unified School District
December 2, 2019
Page 2

Itake further action. How is it determined whether it is feasible to relocate or collect
seeds? How is it determined whether it is "appropriate" to relocate or collect? What are
P the protocols for relocation or collection? What happens to the seeds if collected? In short, this mitigation measure is no mitigation.
Special-Status Migratory Birds: The DEIR identifies special-status birds that may be present on the site. The DEIR further reports that such birds could be disturbed
A or impacted by the Project and that the impact would be significant.
The mitigation measure fails to meet the requirements of CEQA. If active nests
M are found within the construction zone, a buffer will be identified. No information is
provided as to the size of the buffer or protocols for establishing the buffer. If a nest is found within 300 feet of the zone, a buffer will be implemented "as needed." The buffer
& will be determined on a case-by-case basis. There are no protocols or specific performance criteria established. Inconsistent with the above, the mitigation measure
M then allows for a nest to be disturbed for up to a week until an ornithologist observes the disturbance. If signs of disturbance are observed (perhaps for a week), then the ornithologist is to implement measures to reduce the disturbance. How is it determined that a nest disturbance is reduced? How much reduction is required?
Special-Status Bats: The DEIR states that the Pallid Bat, a special-status species, could occur on or near the site. The potential impact from the Project could be significant.

The mitigation measure is a classic future study. If a special-status bat is found
or suspected, then a Habitat Assessment shall identify suitable performance measures for avoiding impacts. Two options are proposed. The first is to consult with the Department of Fish & Wildlife to determine appropriate measures for protecting the bats. There are
no standards proposed. No explanation is provided as to why the consultation with Fish & Wildlife has not already occurred. It seems highly unlikely that protocols for protecting bats have not been fully established and accepted. The second mitigation measure is nothing short of bizarre. It is to chop the tree down in two days, with chainsaws. No explanation is provided as to how this mitigates the impact.
Each of these biological mitigation measures is vague, uncertain and relies on future studies. CEQA case law has consistently rejected such measures as non- compliant. See for example, San Joaquin Raptor Rescue Center v. County of Merced (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 645, 670:
Although a generalized goal of maintaining the integrity of vernal pool habitats is stated ... no specific criteria or
standard of performance is committed to in the EIR. Nor
does the EIR present several alternative mitigation

Bruce Abbolt
Sonoma Valley Unified School District December 2, 2019
Page

measures, in which a selection of one or more of the
described options is to be made after further study. Rather,
P after first presuming that special-status species will be
present in or near the vernal pools, the EIR leaves the reader in the dark about what land management steps will be taken, or what specific criteria or performance standard
will be met, if this presumption is confirmed by the later
A protocol studies. The success or failure of mitigation efforts in regard to impacts on such vernal pool species may largely depend upon management plans that have not
M yet been formulated, and have not been subject to analysis and review within the EIR. The fact that the future
8 management plans would be prepared only after consultation with wildlife agencies does not cure these
basic errors under CEQA, since no adequate criteria or
M standards are set forth.

Addressing specifically the burrowing owl, the Court found that the County improperly deferred formulation of the mitigation measure when no valid reason was given for the deferral. That is certainly the case here. The opportunity to conduct protocol studies occurred during the time the DEIR was in preparation. (See also, Sacramento Old City Assn. v. City Council of Sacramento (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1011, at p. 1028-1029)

Failure to include specific and enforceable performance standards is a violation of CEQA. An EIR's plan for active habitat management of an open space preserve was rejected, as it did not specify any performance standards. Santee v. City of Santee (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 260. The mitigation measure in Gray v. County of Madera
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1099, 1119, was found defective because it committed only to a
goal, not specific performance standards.
The DEIR is defective. Required studies must be conducted and CEQA
compliant mitigation measures developed. Once that is done, the document must be
recirculated.

Very truly yours,
Karea Leslie R. Perry
LRP:kh

EXHIBIT C

LAW OFFICES OF
PERRY, TOHNSON, ANDERSON, MILLER & MOSKOWTTZ LLP
438 First Street, 4th Floor, Santa Rosa, CA 95401
William D. Anderson
David F. Beach June 3. 2020
Isaac M. Gradman
John E. Johnson* VIA FEDERAL EXPRESS AND ELECTRONIC MAIL
Marla Keenan-Rivero*
Scott A. Lewis |Bruce Abbott, Associate Superintendent
Michael G. Miller Sonoma Valley Unified School District
Lawrence A. Moskowitz* 17850 Railroad Avenue
Jeremy L. Olsan |Sonoma, CA 95476
Leslie R. Perry Email: babbott@sonomaschools.org
Burton H. Fohrman
Roger J. Illsley Re: Notice of Intent to File CEQA Petition

Daphne A. Beletsis Dear Mr. Abbott:
Mary Jane Schneider
Sheila S. Craig* Please take notice that under Public Resources Code section 21167.5, that
Deborah S. Bull F Petitioner the Committee for Education intends to file a Petition for Writ of Mandate in
Oscar A. Pardo Sonoma County Superior Court under the provisions of the California Environmental
Martin L. Hirsch Quality Act, Public Resources Code sections 21000 et seq., against Sonoma Valley
Megan J. Lightfoot |Unified School District challenging the approval of the Sonoma Valley High School
Nicole M. Jaffee Athletic Fields Renovation Project. The Petition for Writ of Mandate will request that the court direct Sonoma Valley Unified School District to vacate and rescind its approval of Kristin Mattiske-Nicholls
Traci L. Carrillo the project on grounds that said approval violates the requirements of the California
E. Page Allinson Environmental Quality Act. Additionally, the petition will seek Petitioner's costs and

Chad O. Dorr Jattorney's fees.
Sarah Jane T.C. Truong Very truly vours.
Kelsey L. O'Rourke

Certified Specialist pu Su

Family Law
T Appellate Law Martin L. Hirsch
The State Bar of California
Board of Legal Specialization MLH:kh
TELEPHONE
(707) 525•8800

FACSIMILE
(707) 545•8242

E-MAIL
hirsch@
perrylaw.net

I declare that: r

2 I am and was at the time of service of the papers herein, over the age of eighteen (18) years and am not a party to the action. Iam employed in the County of Sonoma, California, m 7 0 OA and my business address is 438 1st Street, 4th Floor, Santa Rosa, California 95401.
On June 3, 2020, I served the following document, described as set forth below on the interested parties in this action by placing true copies thereof enclosed in sealed envelopes, at Sonoma, addressed as follows:

NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION

SEE ATTACHED SERVICE LIST

8 X BY ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION. Only by emailing the document(s) to the persons at the e-mail address(es). This is necessitated during the declared National o Emergency due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic because this office will be working remotely, not able to send physical mail as usual, and is therefore using only electronic mail. No electronic message or other indication that the transmission was 10 unsuccessful was received within a reasonable time after the transmission. We will provide a physical copy, upon request only, when we return to the office at the

X BY FEDEX OVERNIGHT: By placing for collection at the FedEx Kinkos located at conclusion of the national emergency..
'NOSHEGNY 'NOSNHON 'A883d =9 9 310 d11 ZLIMOXSON 9 83TIM 650 Fourth Street, Santa Rosa, California, a true and correct copy thereof enclosed in a sealed Federal Express envelope fully prepared and addressed as noted below.

I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.
16 Executed on June 3, 2020, at Santa Rosa, California.

/s/ Kate Hutchins 17

Kate Hutchins 18

19

20

SERVICE LIST 68
SCHOOL DISTRICT Bruce Abbott, Associate Superintendent SONOMA VALLEY UNIFIED 24 Sonoma Valley Unified School District
17850 Railroad Avenue
25 Sonoma, CA 95476
Email: babbott@sonomaschools.org 26

27

2 28

PROOF OF SERVICE OF NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION

ELECTRONICALLY FILED Leslie R. Perry, Bar No. 62390 Martin L. Hirsch, Bar No. 255718 Superior Court of California -

County of Sonoma PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON,
6/4/2020 11:14 AM 2
MILLER & MOSKOWITZ, LLP
3 438 1st Street, 4th Floor Arlene D. Junior, Clerk of the Court
Santa Rosa, California 95401 By: Alexandria Hankes, Deputy Clerk
4 Telephone: (707) 525-8800 Facsimile: (707) 545-8242
5 Email: perry@perrylaw.net hirsch@perrylaw.net
o Attorneys for Petitioner
7 THE COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATION

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF SONOMA 9

10

THE COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATION, Case No.SCV-266424 11

12 Petitioner, NOTICE OF PREPARATION OF
RECORD OF PROCEEDING -11 ZLIMONSOW 9 X3TIN 'NOSHEONY 'NOSNHOr'A83d c2 V.

14 SONOMA VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL California Environmental Quality Act

15 DISTRICT and DOES 1 through 25, [CEQA]
inclusive.

16 Respondents.

17 SONOMA VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL,

18 Real Party in Interest.

19

20 TO RESPONDENTS SONOMA VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT:

21 In this action, Petitioner the Committee for Education petitions this Court for a Writ of

22 Mandate, directed to Respondent Sonoma Valley Unified School District ("Respondent").

23 Petitioner challenges Respondent's May 5, 2020 approval of the Sonoma Valley High School

24 Athletic Fields Renovation Project. The Project is a reconstruction and reconfiguration of the

25 Sonoma Valley High School athletic fields and facilities. Petitioner contends that
26 Respondent's approval of the Project violates the California Environmental Quality Act,

27 Public Resources Code sections 21000 et seq. ("CEQA").
Pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.6(b)(1), the District shall prepare the 28

NOTICE OF PREPARATION OF RECORD OF PROCEEDING

1

2

t

4 and certify the record of proceedings not later than 60 days from the date that this Notice was

4o served. The record will be organized, paginated consecutively, and indexed so that each
document may be clearly identified as to its content and source, in a form and consistent with
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.2205.

7 Respondent shall include in the record of proceedings all documents, including

8

o transcripts, minutes of meetings, notices, correspondence, reports, studies, proposed decisions,
final drafts and any other documents or records relating to Respondent's determination to
approve the Project.

10

11 PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON,

PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, 12 MILLER & MOSKOWITZ, LLP

MILLER & MOSKOWTZ LLP DATED: June 4, 2020

13 By: A

12 LESLIE R, PERRY
MARTIN L. HIRSCH
Attorneys for Petitioner

16 THE COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATION

17

18

19

20

21
S 23
24
25

26

27

28

NOTICE OF PREPARATION OF RECORD OF PROCEEDING 2

1 Leslie R. Perry, Bar No. 62390 Martin L. Hirsch, Bar No. 255718 ELECTRONICALLY FILED

2 PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, Superior Court of California
MILLER & MOSKOWITZ, LLP County of Sonoma

3 438 18t Street, 4th Floor 6/4/2020 11:14 AM
Santa Rosa, California 95401 Arlene D. Junior, Clerk of the Court

4 Telephone: (707) 525-8800 By: Alexandria Hankes, Deputy Clerk

5 Facsimile: (707) 545-8242 Email: perry@perrylaw.net
6 hirsch@perrylaw.net
Attorneys for Petitioner
7 THE COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATION

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

o COUNTY OF SONOMA

10

11 THE COMMITTEE FOR EDUCATION, Case No. SCV-266424

PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, 12 Petitioner, PROOF OF SERVICE OF NOTICE OF
d71 ZLIMOMSOW 9 3TIW INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION
13 V.

14 SONOMA VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL California Environmental Quality Act

15 DISTRICT and DOES 1 through 25,
inclusive. [CEQA]

16 Respondents.

17 SONOMA VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL

18 Real Parties in Interest.

19

20 8588508
27

28

1
PROOF OF SERVICE OF NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION

- N m tD I declare that:

am and was at the time of service of the papers herein, over the age of eighteen (18) years and am not a party to the action. I am employed in the County of Sonoma, California, and my business address is 438 1st Street, 4th Floor, Santa Rosa, California 95401.
On June 3, 2020, I served the following document, described as set forth below on the interested parties in this action by placing true copies thereof enclosed in sealed envelopes, at Sonoma, addressed as follows:
NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION

7 SEE ATTACHED SERVICE LIST

8 X BY ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION. Only by emailing the document(s) to the persons at the e-mail address(es). This is necessitated during the declared National
-D Emergency due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic because this office will be working remotely, not able to send physical mail as usual, and is therefore using only 10 electronic mail. No electronic message or other indication that the transmission was unsuccessful was received within a reasonable time after the transmission. We will
11 provide physical copy, upon request only, when we return to the office at the
12 conclusion of the national emergency.
PERRY, JOHNSON, ANDERSON, X d11 ZLIMOYSON 3 H3TWA BY FEDEX OVERNIGHT: By placing for collection at the FedEx Kinkos located at
13 650 Fourth Street, Santa Rosa, California, a true and correct copy thereof enclosed in a sealed Federal Express envelope fully prepared and addressed as noted below.
14
15 I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.
16 Executed on June 3, 2020, at Santa Rosa, California.
17

18 /s/ Kate Hutchins
Kate Hutchins 19

20

3 SERVICE LIST
22 23 Bruce Abbott, Associate Superintendent SONOMA VALLEY UNIFIED
24 Sonoma Valley Unified School District SCHOOL DISTRICT
17850 Railroad Avenue
25 Sonoma, CA 95476
Email: babbott@sonomaschools.org
26

27

28

2
PROOF OF SERVICE OF NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION

DECEIVEN
JUN 9 t 2020
BY:____________