Elecironically FILED by Suberior Court of California, County of Los Angeles on 09/01/2020 10:51 PM Sherri R. Carter, Executive Officer/Clerk of Court, by R. Perez, Deputy Clerk

JOHN G. McCLENDON (State Bar No. 145077) LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN 2 A Professional Corporation 9841 Irvine Center Drive, Suite 230 3 Irvine, California 92618

4 Telephone: (949) 585-6300 Facsimile: (949) 585-6305

5 email: john@CEQA.com

6 Attorneys for Petitioner CITY OF SOUTH GATE

7

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

10

11 CITY OF SOUTH GATE, a California

12 general law city, Case No. 208TCP02807

NNVW Petitioner,

df A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13

14 V. PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

LEIBOLD McCLENDON COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, a [Pub Resources Code § 21168 &/or § 21168.5;

15 political subdivision of the State of Code of Civ. Proc. § 1085 &/or § 1094.51

California, LOS ANGELES COUNTY
16 BOARD OF SUPERVISORS,

17 DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, NOTE TO COURT CLERK: THIS

18 Respondents, ACTION IS BROUGHT PURSUANT
TO THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRON- MENTAL QUALITY ACT ("CEQA")

19 and DOES 11 through 25, inclusive, AND THEREFORE IS TO BE
ASSIGNED TO A JUDGE

20 Real Parties in Interest. DESIGNATED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH PUBLIC RESOURCES

21 CODE SECTION 21167.1(b)

22

23

24 INTRODUCTION

25 In this action petitioner CITY OF SOUTH GATE ("Petitioner" or "the City") challenges
26 specific violations of law by respondents COUNTY OF LOS ANGBLES (the "County") and its
27 governing body, the Los ANGELES COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS ("Board") [County and
28 Board are collectively referred to herein as "Respondents"], as follows:

PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 1. Petitioner challenges the decision of respondent Board, as the elected legislative
2 body for respondent County, to approve the so-called "Rancho Los Amigos South Campus
3 Project" (the "Project") on 74 acres of County-owned property in the City of Downey directly

4 north of the City (the "Site"). Despite the Site being a California Register-listed Historic
5 District, the massive Project proposes the demolition of approximately 65 existing buildings and

6 structures on the Site and their replacement with approximately 650,000 square feet of new
7 development, including three new County administrative buildings staffed by approximately
8 3,000 County employees. Parking for this new development's employees and visitors would be
9 accommodated in two new parking structures: one up to nine stories tall and providing 2,167
10 parking spaces; the other up to three stories tall and providing 525 parking spaces.
11 2. The Project would result in a regionally significant impact on traffic by resulting
MANN 12 in more than 7,443 new daily vehicle trips to the Site. As approved by the Board, 55% of these

g NOIIVHOdHOO TYNOISSHHONd V 13 trips (i.e., over four thousand trips) would access the Site a via a small two-lane road abutting
14 single-family residences in the City. The City and its residents strenuously objected to this NOUNHIOOW TIOHIHT 15 significant impact, urging the County to fully mitigate it, and CalTrans noted that the "abundant"
16 new parking would promote driving instead of public transit and active modes of transportation.
17 Yet Respondents not only failed to fully mitigate this impact, they even failed to commit to
18 measures that would partially mitigate the Project's short- and long-term traffic impacts.

19 3. The County prepared an environmental impact report ("EIR") to analyze the
20 Project's potentially significant impacts, and that EIR determined that implementation of the
21 Project could result in significant and unavoidable impacts in the areas of: Aesthetics; Air
22 Quality; Historical Resources; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Noise; and Traffic.
23 4. Petitioner contends that the County's preparation of a biased and defective EIR
24 for the Project, and the Board's certification of that EIR, violated specific provisions of the
25 California Environmental Quality Act (Pub. Resources Code § 21000, et seq.: "CEQA") and the
26 Guidelines for Implementation of CEQA (Tit. 14, Cal. Code Regs., § 15000, et seq.: the "CEQA
27 Guidelines"), a half-century old statutory and regulatory framework commonly referred to as
28| "the Holy Grail of California's environmental laws."

-2-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 5. Petitioner also contends that, in approving the Project, Respondents violated
2 California's Planning and Zoning Law (Gov. Code § 65000, et seq.: the "PZL"). Government

3 Code section 65402 prohibits the County from approving the Project within the City of Downey
4 until the County submits the location, purpose and extent of the Project to the City of Downey's

5 planning commission for a determination as to the Project's conformance with that city's general
6 plan. However, Respondents failed to comply with Government Code section 65402 before
7 approving the Project. Consequently, Respondents are without legal authority to commence
8 implementation of the Project.
9 6. Petitioner requests that this Court vacate and set aside the Project's and EIR's
10 approvals by issuing a writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1085 and/or
11 1094.5, directing Respondents to vacate and set aside their approval of the Project and the EIR.
JURISDICTION AND VENUE 8 NNVIN 2 NONIIOOW IIOHIIT 12
NOLIVAOJNOO TVNOISSELIONd V 13 7. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to sections 187, 1085 and/or
14 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and section 21168[.5] of the Public Resources Code.
15 8. Venue for this action may properly lie in this Court pursuant to Code of Civil
16 Procedure section 394, since Respondents and the Site are located in the County.
17 PARTIES AND BENEFICIAL INTEREST

18 9. Incorporated in 1923, and located in the heart of the Los Angeles Metropolitan
19 Area, Petitioner is a California general law city and the 17th largest city in the County, with an
residents, 20 area of 7.4 square miles. On behalf of Petitioner's nearly one hundred thousand
21 Petitioner challenges Respondents' approval of the Project and certification of the EIR.
22 10. Petitioner has standing to bring this action because it complied with subdivisions
23 (a) and (b) of Public Resources Code section 21177, and exhausted its administrative remedies
24 by timely commenting on and objecting to the contents and adequacy of the EIR and the Project.
25 Petitioner is directly and beneficially interested in the issuance of the requested writ of mandate
26 because unless this Court grants the requested writ of mandate, the impacts resulting from
27 Respondents' decision to approve the Project and certify the EIR will extend to areas in which
28 Petitioner's residents live and will directly and adversely affect their health and environment.

-3-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 11.

2 Respondent County is a public body, corporate and politic, organized and existing

3 under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California as a political subdivision thereof, and

4 is responsible for regulating and controlling land use in all areas within unincorporated areas of
the County, as well as complying, when it is "lead agency" for a project, with the provisions of

6 CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines, the PZL, and other federal, state and local laws and regulations.
12.

7 Respondent Board is the duly constituted legislative body for the County. As such,

8 Board is the governing body of the County, and is responsible for carrying out the County's

9

10 statutorily mandated duties, including (but not limited to) assuring that the preparation of CEQA
documents for projects that the County is the "lead agency" for fully comply with CEQA.
13. Since Respondents did not publicly identify any other persons or entities as

A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN 11 recipients of the approval that is the subject of this action, Petitioner is informed and believes
12 that it has complied with subdivision (a) of Public Resources Code section 21167.6.5.

13 14. The true names and capacities, whether individual, corporate or otherwise, of the
14 respondents named herein as DOES 1 through 10, and the real parties in interest named herein

15 as DOES 11 through 25, inclusive, are unknown to Petitioner who therefore sues those
16 respondents and real parties in interest by such fictitious names. Petitioner will amend this
17 Petition for Writ of Mandate to allege the true names and capacities of those Doe parties when
18 the same becomes known to it. Petitioner is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges,

19 that each of the parties designated herein as a Doe is responsible in some manner for the events
20| and actions referred to herein. Reference to "County," "Board," or "Respondents" herein shall

21

22 mean the named respondents and Does through 25.
15.

23 Petitioner is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, that at all relevant

24 times the County, the Board, and the Doe respondents and/or real parties in interest were and are

25 the agents of each other, authorized to do the acts herein alleged, each of which was ratified by

the others.

26 16.

27 Petitioner is informed and believes and on that basis alleges that Respondents and
each of the Doe respondents and/or real parties in interest proximately caused the acts, omissions
28 to act, and/or injuries Petitioner alleges herein.

-4-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

2 17. ALLEGATIONS COMMON TO ALL CAUSES OF ACTION
Upon its purchase by the County in 1887/1888, the Site became part of the new
3 "Los Angeles County Poor Farm" that provided work, housing and medical care for the indigent.

6 In 1888, the Board of Supervisors awarded the contract to design the layout of the new Poor

8 Farm to the preeminent Los Angeles architectural firm of the time, Kysor, Morgan and Walls,
who were individually and collectively responsible for the architecture of many of the most
7 notable buildings constructed in the Los Angeles area in the late 19th century.
18.

9

11 In the decades that followed, the Poor Farm gradually evolved into a full-fledged

MANN hospital, eventually becoming known for its polio care, and its continued development led to the

A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 10 five distinct and evocative general architectural styles evolving on the Site. However, by the

13
dd mid-1950s, much of the older Site was abandoned in favor of the more modern facilities of the
12 North Campus and, with most of its buildings boarded up since the 1980s, the Site is unused.
19.

LEIBOLD McCLENDON 14 During the past ten+ years, with the County as its steward, the Site was allowed
to deteriorate and its buildings fell into accelerated disrepair. In recent years, buildings within
15 the Historic District have been destroyed due to neglect, vandalism and numerous arson fires.
16 For instance, the historic 1915 Harriman Residence was destroyed by arson in June, 2017. On
17 June 27, 2017, the Board directed the County CEO, in conjunction with several County
18 departments (Health Services, Fire, Sheriff's, and Public Works) and the City of Downey, to
19 prepare a plan a to prevent arson and other criminal activity as a result of several arson fires that
20 had occurred on the Rancho Los Amigos campus.

21 20. Like the boy who kills his parents and then pleads for mercy because he is now an
22 orphan, the current deteriorated conditions of abandoned and vandalized historic buildings

24 23 caused by the County's decades-long neglect of the Site under its stewardship were ironically

26 cited by the County as health and safety concerns and justification for the proposed Project--a
25 Project that would basically erase its poor stewardship of the historic Site.
21. Because the County determined that an EIR would be necessary for the massive
27 proposed Project, it issued a Notice of Preparation of an EIR and made the notice available for
28| public review between August 9, 2017, and September 11, 2017. During this time, comments
-5-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

were received from nine public agencies, ten individuals and one organization, with the main

2 areas of concern being historic preservation, and the Project's impacts to the local communities.
22. More than two years later, on October 9, 2019, the County released the Draft EIR
for the Project to the public for a 45-day review and comment period. A total of 54 comment
letters were received by the County in response to the Draft EIR, including eight letters from
6 public agencies (including one from the City), six letters from organizations, and 40 letters from
7 individuals. The most frequently raised concerns in the comments received were increased
8 traffic and congestion on local streets and historical/cultural resources issues, including

9 recommendations for further avoidance of impacts and adaptive reuse of historic structures at
10 the Site. The County prepared responses to those comments and included them in the Final EIR.

11 23. The Final EIR, dated June 2020, concluded that, even after the imposition of all

NNVIN 12 feasible mitigation measures, implementation of the Project would still result in significant

8
NOUNIIOOW CIOHIIT PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13 | environmental impacts in the following areas: aesthetics (shade and shadow impacts), air quality
14 (Project operation), Historic Resources (demolition of the Historic District), Greenhouse Gas
15 Emissions (Project operation), noise (noise and vibration during construction), and transportation
16 | (impact to six intersections).

17 24. By letter dated June 22, 2020, Petitioner provided comments on the Final EIR and
18 requested, in light of the significant environmental impacts such a massive regionally significant
19 Project would have on City residents once implemented, the large amount of late-appearing
20 supplemental documents to the Final EIR, and the COVID-19 pandemic, that the County provide

21 at least a 30- to 60- day extension before the Board considered certifying the Final EIR. A true
22 and correct copy of that letter is attached hereto as Exhibit 1. The County declined the request.
23 25, The next day (June 23, 2020), the Board voted to certify the Final EIR and approve
24 the Project. Wasting no time, later that same day the County filed and posted a CEQA Notice
25 of Determination of the Board's certification of the EIR for the Project.

26 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION (AGAINST RESPONDENTS)
27 PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

28 26. Petitioner realleges paragraphs 1 through 25.

-6-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 A. VIOLATION OF CEQA AND THE CEOA GUIDELINES

2 27. CEQA applies to all "governmental agencies at all levels" and requires public
3 agencies to prepare an EIR whenever the approval of a project may cause significant adverse

4 effects or impacts on the environment. Respondents' decision to approve the Project was a

5 project approval causing regionally significant adverse environmental impacts.

6 28. CEQA requires lead agencies to review the environmental impacts of all projects.
7 Under Public Resources Code section 21065, a project is any discretionary public "activity

8 which may cause either a direct physical change in the environment, or a reasonably foreseeable
9 indirect physical change in the environment." Respondents' decision to approve the Project was

10 a discretionary decision by Respondent that will result in "reasonably foreseeable" adverse
11 environmental impacts.

12 29. A "significant effect on the environment" a means a substantial, or potentially
NOLIVHOdJOO IVNOISSHIONI V § NNVW Y NOINHIDOW CIOHINT 13 substantial, adverse change in any of the physical conditions within the area affected by the
14 project including aesthetics, air, land, water, ambient noise, traffic/circulation and objects of
15 historic or cultural significance. As the County conceded at the outset, the Project's potential
16 to create regionally significant environmental impacts required the preparation of an EIR.

17 30. In order for an EIR to be legally adequate, it must comport with certain
18 requirements set forth in CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines. CEQA imposes upon the County
19 a clear, present and mandatory duty to certify an EIR only if the EIR analyzes and fully discloses
20| to the public the significant environmental effects that may occur from a Project.
21 31. Respondents did not proceed in the manner required by law in that Respondents
22 produced and certified an EIR that was biased in favor of the Project's approval and, therefore,
23 failed to constitute the full disclosure document intended to objectively inform decision-makers

24 and the public of the Project's true description, impacts, mitigation measures and alternatives.
25 32. Respondents' certification that the EIR satisfied the requirements of CEQA and
26 the CEQA Guidelines constitutes an abuse of discretion in that Respondents failed to proceed
27 in the manner required by law, and the Board's decision to certify it was not supported by
28 substantial evidence. Examples of this include (without limitation) the Final EIR's:
-7-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 a.

2 Reliance on an incomplete and unstable description of the Project by failing to

3 include specifics about a number of project components and failing to provide an

4 b. honest "baseline" for the Project and project splitting (i.e., "piecemealing") it;

5 Failure as an informational document to adequately disclose or analyze the

6 Project's significant impacts on the environment, including (but not limited to) the

7 Project's impacts related to historical/cultural resources, transportation/circulation,

8 air quality, noise, land use, hazardous materials, safety and aesthetics;

C.

9 Failure to identify, analyze, or adopt feasible and fully enforceable mitigation

10 measures to reduce or avoid the impacts of the Project, including (but not limited

11 to) feasible measures proposed to reduce aesthetic, air quality, traffic/circulation,
health and safety, historical resources and noise impacts;

MANN 12 d.
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13 Failure to adequately disclose, analyze, or mitigate the Project's significant

dd growth-inducing impacts to traffic by ignoring the fact that the Project's new

NOINH IOOW IIOHIAT 14

15 parking structures would induce driving and disincentivize public transportation;

e.

16 Failure to adequately disclose, analyze or mitigate the Project's significant
growth-inducing and cumulative impacts;

17 f.

18 Failure to consider a range of feasible reasonable alternatives to the Project;

g.

19 Improper deferral of mitigation measures and analysis of the Project's short- and

20 long-term impacts, including (but not limited to) mitigation and analysis of

21 h. aesthetio, historical/cultural resource and traffic/circulation impacts;

22 i. Failure to impose essential "fully enforceable" short-term traffic mitigation; and

23 Failure to address key information in the EIR itself instead of elsewhere and

24 33. failure to recirculate at least portions of the Final EIR that added new information.

25 These failures of the County to comply with CEQA and the CEQA Guideline were

26 pointed out by several commenters on the Draft and Final EIR and include (among others):

d.

27 The City's letter dated March 12, 2019. In response to a Notice of Preparation of

28 an environmental impact report issued by the City of Downey for a nearby joint
development project between that city and the County that they had already

-8-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 initiated, Petitioner protested that Downey and the County were engaged in illegal

2 project splitting by "piecemealing" their joint project and the Project.

3 b. CalTrans' letter dated November 21, 2019. CalTrans cautioned that research

4 shows the Project's new "abundant parking [would] enable[] and encourage[]
5 driving" and "undermine" the Project's ability to encourage public transit and
6 active modes of transportation. CalTrans further advised that the new parking
7 structures should be designed in a way that would be conducive to their adaptive
8 reuse. In violation of CEQA, the County failed to respond to this in good faith.

C. The letter dated November 21, 2019, submitted by the law firm Chatten-Brown,

10 Carstens & Minteer, LLP, on behalf of the Los Angeles Conservancy. By this

11 letter, the County was put on notice that the Project's Draft EIR was legally
12 inadequate in (among other things) its description of existing conditions, failing NNVW 13 to support its claims regarding the condition of existing resources or disclose the
dd NOLIVHOdHOO IVNOISSHIONI V 14 County's legal duty to protect those resources, and it called out the County for NOINIIOOW TIOHIHT 15 using the Draft EIR as a post hoc rationalization for its predetermination that

16 nearly the entirety of the Site's Historic District should be demolished. As noted
17 in this letter, the Draft EIR included: a misleading and unsupported description of
18 the Site's existing conditions; failed to meet CEQA's informational requirements

19 in its analysis of the Site's cultural resources; and an inadequate Alternatives

20 analysis. As allowed by subdivision (a) of Public Resources Code section,
21 Petitioners likewise allege in this Petition the same grounds for noncompliance
22 with CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines as LA Conservancy alleged in its letters.
23 d. The City's letter dated November 21, 2019. The City's 32-page letter provided
24 127 detailed point-by-point comments on the Draft EIR, primarily noting many
25 errors and informational deficiencies in it, including: Project location and setting;
26 impacts to aesthetics' air quality; biological and cultural resources; energy (no

27 mitigation identified); greenhouse gas emissions; hazard and hazardous materials;

28 hydrology and water quality; land use and planning; noise; transportation; issues

-9-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

with the Project's Traffic Impact Study; alternatives; and growth inducement. The

2 County provided legally inadequate responses to this letter in the Final EIR.
3 34. In a last-minute effort to apprize the County that its Final EIR for the Project still

4 did not fully comply with CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines and that many of its responses to the
City's November 21, 2019 letter were inadequate and/or inaccurate, on June 22, 2020, Petitioner

6 provided the County with the eight-page letter, attached hereto as Exhibit 1 and incorporated
7 herein by reference, setting out the most glaring ones. This letter provides further detailed

8 factual support for Petitioner's allegations herein of Respondents' violations of CEQA and the
CEQA Guidelines.

10 35. For example, compounding the overall failure of the Draft and Final EIRs to

11 adequately address the Project's construction and operational traffic impacts is the County's

NOLIVNONOD IVNOISSHONdT & NNVW * NOUNHIOOW CIOHIHT 12 failure to identity and commit to "fully enforceable" mitigation that is not illusory and will
13 actually occur. As was noted in the Draft EIR's Executive Summary, three out of four of the
14 Project's short-term construction-related transportation impacts will supposedly be mitigated to
15 a level of insignificance by mitigation measure MM-TRA-1. However, this measure evinces no
16 commitment to a "fully enforceable" mitigation measure for these impacts as CEQA requires.
17 Instead, it merely includes a non-exclusive list of seven bulleted measures that "may" or may not
18 be included in a Construction Traffic Mitigation Plan (CTMP) that "shall [e.g., in the future] be
19 developed by the contractor and approved by the County to alleviate construction period
20 impacts" and fails to evince any commitment by the County to any specific concrete measures
21 to reduce construction-related impacts on transportation a to a level of insignificance.
22 36. Further compounding the illegal and illusory nature of MM-TRA-1 is the Final
23 EIR's one-word change to it after the public review period for the Draft EIR that profoundly
24 waters it down as a mitigation measure by substituting the noun "consultation" for the verb
25 "coordinate" in its second-to-last bullet. As CEQA case law makes clear, these two words have

26 a significant difference in meaning in the CEQA context. Thus, with this single word change,
27 the County no longer will have to actually work with the city in which the Project is going to be
28 constructed to ensure adequate emergency service access; the County now merely has to

-10-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 "consult" with that city and is free to ignore its concerns-and that is even assuming this bullet
2 ultimately finds it way into a future CTMP. And despite Petitioner's pleas, Respondents
3 completely ignore any County coordination with the Petitioner to minimize the Project's short-

4 and long-term traffic impacts to the two lane "road diet" street in the City that the EIR estimates

5 will be utilized by 55% of the Project's employees and visitor.

37. CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines require that Respondents adopt feasible
7 mitigation measures to avoid significant environmental impacts. Respondents did not proceed

8 1n the manner required by law in that Respondents failed to prepare an adequate EIR by not
9 examining and discussing in good faith potential mitigation measures that would have
10 substantially lessened the Project's potentially significant adverse impacts.

11 38. CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines require Respondents to address comments and

8 NNVJN 2 NOINHIOOW IIOHIHT 12 suggestions raised during the EIR review process and to prepare a good faith, reasoned analysis
PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13 in response to all significant issues raised. Respondents did not proceed in the manner required
14 by law in that Respondents failed to adequately and accurately provide good faith, reasoned
15 responses to all written comments made during the CEQA public review process, including (but
16 not limited to) inadequate responses to comments raised concerning the Project's environmental
17 impacts and identifying feasible mitigation measures and alternatives.
18 39. CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines require that the lead agency make certain
19 specific written findings and that those findings must be supported by substantial evidence in
20| the record. Respondents did not proceed in the manner required by law in that Respondents

21 failed to adopt findings that are supported by substantial evidence in light of the Project's whole
22 record.

23 40. Respondents did not proceed in the manner required by law in that Respondents
24 failed to adopt findings that adequately address all significant Project impacts and failed to make
25 adequate specific findings with regard to the feasibility of each mitigation measure and each
26 alternative identified in the EIR and by commenters.
27 41. CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines require that an environmental impact report
28 analyze a range of reasonable alternatives to avoid potentially significant environmental impacts.

-11-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

range of 1 Respondents failed to prepare an adequate EIR by not analyzing a reasonable
2 alternatives to the Project, including feasible alternatives that were environmentally superior.

3 42. Respondents failed to prepare an adequate EIR by not examining any alternatives

4 that would mitigate or eliminate the environmental injustice inherent in the Project.

5 B. VIOLATION OF THE PZL

43. The essence of the Project is the County's construction of approximately 650,000
square feet of public buildings and two parking structures for nearly 2,700 vehicles.

8 44. The Project lies entirely within the corporate limits of the City of Downey.

9 45. The PZL requires every city and county general plan to include seven mandatory |
10 elements: circulation (transportation); conservation; housing; noise; open space; safety; and land

11 use. The PZL also permits a city's or county's general plan to include optional elements.

12 46. All elements of the City of Downey's general plan are relevant to the Site. NNVW NOLIVHOHOD TVNOISSHHONd V 13 47. Subdivision (b) of Government Code section 65402 prohibits a county from
8 14 constructing or authorizing a public building or structure within the corporate limits of a city if NOCNHIOOW IIOHIHT 15 such city or other county has adopted a general plan or part thereof and such general plan or part
16 thereof is applicable to the location where the public building or structure is to be located.

17 48. In its June 22, 2020 letter to the Board, Petitioner noted that extending the public
18 review period for the Final EIR would allow the County time to comply with subdivision (b) of
19 Government Code section 65402 and formally submit the Project to the City of Downey's
20 planning commission for a report on the Project's conformance with that city's general plan.

21 49. Ignoring the fact that the PZL requires a general plan to include seven mandatory
22 elements, of which land use is but one of them, the County declined the suggestion, stating that,
23  "the Project is not required to be consistent with Downey's General Plan since it would develop it
24| County uses on County-owned land."
25 50. However, in requiring a county to formally submit "the location, purpose and
26 extent" of proposed buildings and structures to the city planning commission in which they
27 would be developed, subdivision (b) of Government Code section 65402 calls for a conformance
28 report that addresses consistency and conformance with all the general plan mandatory elements:

-12-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

circulation (transportation); conservation; housing; noise; open space; safety; and land use. In
2 ignoring this statutory requirement, the County violated the PZL.
3 51. By ignoring this provision of the PZL, the County also violated CEQA's dictate
4 that it disclose "all it reasonably can" about the Project's (in)consistency with an adopted plan.

5 C. PROPRIETY OF RELIEF

6 52. The decision of Respondents to approve the Project and certify the EIR constitutes

7 a final decision as contemplated in Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5 and an "approval"

8 as defined in CEQA Guidelines section 15352.

9 53. Respondents have the legal duty in making their determinations to comply with
10 the applicable laws and regulations governing such acts. In particular, Respondents have the
11 legal and nondiscretionary duty to act in accordance with the requirements of CEQA, the CEQA
NNVIN  NOANHIOON CIOHIIT 12 Guidelines, the PZL, and other applicable laws and regulations.
NOLIVHOdHOO TYNOISSHJONI 13 54. Respondents acted arbitrarily, capriciously, irrationally, unreasonably, and without
14 any or an adequate evidentiary basis in failing or refusing to comply with the requirements of
15 CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines, the PZL, and other applicable laws and regulations. In acting and
16 failing to act in the manner described above, Respondents acted in an arbitrary, capricious, and
17 irrational manner lacking any reasonable basis, in violation of Code of Civil Procedure cection

18 1085 et seq.

19 55. At all times material hereto, Respondents had, and continue to have, the ability to
20 comply with their legal duties and obligations. Respondents have failed and refused to perform

21 those duties and obligations notwithstanding the substantial evidence presented by Petitioner and
22 others that such failures and refusals are contrary to law and regulations and will have adverse

23 consequences on Petitioner, its residents, and those residing in surrounding communities.
24 56. In acting and failing to act in the manner described above, Respondents have
25 prejudicially abused their discretion by certifying a legally inadequate EIR and approving the
26 Project, in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5 et seq.
27 57. Petitioner has exhausted all available administrative remedies against
28 Respondents' decision to certify the EIR and approve the Project. There is no is provision known
-13-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

to Petitioner for any further administrative remedial action from the decision of Respondents to
2 certify the EIR and approve the Project.

3 58. Petitioner is beneficially interested in issuance of the writ of mandate as prayed

4 for hereafter and has no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at law other than the relief sought in
5 this petition. If the Court does not grant the relief prayed for herein, Petitioner will suffer

6 irreparable injury for which it has no adequate remedy at law, there will be a waste, and the
7 failure to enjoin further conduct may tend to render the judgment in this action ineffectual.
8 59. Petitioner has commenced this action within the requisite time after the notice
9 authorized by Public Resources Code section 21152 was filed, as required by Public Resources
10 Code section 21167, as extended by the California State Judicial Council's Emergency Rule
11 No. 9, and within the period of time otherwise prescribed for the commencement of this action

NNVT 12 in Government Code section 65009.
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION 13 60. Petitioner has complied with the requirements of Public Resources Code section
df
NOINHIOON CIOHINT 14 21167.5 by sending, via the United States Postal Service, written notices of this action to
15 Respondents. Copies of the written notices provided to Respondents via the County Clerk and
16 Clerk of the Board are attached hereto as Exhibit 2 and incorporated therein by reference.
17 61. Petitioner will cause a conformed copy of this Petition for Writ of Mandate to be
18 served on the California Attorney General in accordance with Public Resources Code section
19 21167.7 and Code of Civil Procedure section 388.

20 PRAYER

21 In each of the respects enumerated above, Respondents have violated their duties under
22 law, abused their discretion, failed to proceed in the manner required by law, and decided the
23 matters complained of without the support of substantial evidence. Accordingly, Respondents'
24 certification of the EIR and the approval of the Project must be set aside.
25 WHEREFORE, Petitioner prays for the following relief against Respondents and any and
26 all other parties who may oppose Petitioner in this proceeding:
27 1. On the first cause of action, for a judgment determining that Respondents
28 failed to fully comply with CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines, the PZL, and/or

-14-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

m tro N other applicable laws and regulations, and granting a peremptory writ of
mandate commanding Respondents to set aside and rescind their approval
of the Project and certification of the EIR, and ordering Respondents to
take no further steps toward implementing the Project unless and until

7 2. Respondents fully comply with CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines, the PZL,
and/or other applicable laws and regulations;

8 3. For cost of suit incurred herein and for reasonable litigation expenses; and

10 For such other and further relief as the Court deems just and/or proper.

Dated: September 1, 2020

11 LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN, P.C.

MANN 12
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION By:

13 Tohn G. McClendon

& John G. McClendon

NOINHIOOW IIOHIIT 14 Attorneys for Petitioner CITY OF SOUTH GATE

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

-15-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

VERIFICATION

2 State of California, County of Orange

3 John G. McClendon hereby declares:
am counsel for the CITY OF SOUTH GATE, the petitioner in this action. Such party is
absent from the County of Orange, California, where I have my office. For that reason, I make

6 this verification for and on behalf of petitioner pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 446.
I have read the foregoing Petition for Writ of Mandate and know its contents. The matters stated
as to the matters which are stated 8 in it are true and correct based on my knowledge, except
9 therein on information and belief, and as to those matters, I believe them to be true.

10 I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
11 foregoing is true and correct.

MANN 12 Executed this 1# day of September, 2020, at Fallbrook, California.

8 NOLI VHOdHOO TVNOISSHJONd F 13
Tohn G. McCbendon 14
John G. McClendon NOGNHTOO IOAIHT 15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

-16-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

EXHIBIT 1

Community Development Department
Joe Perez, Director of Community Development

Rity st South 8650 California Avenue, South Gate, CA 90280-3004

:

Gate P: (323) 353-9566 F; (323) 563-9571
www.cityofsouthgate.org

1
June 22, 2020

The Honorable Board of Supervisors 3
County of Los Angeles
383 Kenneth Iahn Hall of Administration
500 West Temple Street
Los Angeles, California 90012 •-
Comments on the LA County, Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Project Final Environmental Impact Report (Final EIR, SCH #2017081017): Board of Supervisors Hearing of June 43,2020+ Agenda Item No. 37

31:
As the City of South Gate noted it its earlier comments on the Draft ETR for this regionally significant project, it will have a significant environmental impact on our residents and business community once it
is implemented. We would like to preface our comments on the project's Final EIR by noting that we were provided insufficient time to review both the County's responses to our comments on the Draft ETR and the new information that has been included in the Final EIR and its appendices.
.

Given the circumstances with the. COVID-49 pandemic, we request at least ä 30- to 60-day extension before the County considers certifying the Final EIR to allow adequate time: for the City of South Gate and
others to review it and other late-appearing supplemental documents. Since the proposed project "would develop three new County administrative buildings" [DEIR p. 2-20], additional time would also enable the County to comply with state law requiring the County to formally submit the project to the City of Downey's planning commission for a report on the project's conformance with that city's general plan,
(See Government Code sec. 65402(b).)

In light of the lack of time to fully review and analyze the Final EIR and supplemental documents, the City of South Gate incorporates by reference the objections made by others regarding the Final Elld's failure to
fully inform the public regarding the project's potentially significant impacts as well as the failure to mitigate those impacts to a level of insignificance by imposing effective and fully enforceable mitigation measures- Vl:

The City of South Gate's major concerns continue to be related to traffic impacts and the potential for this traffic to impact City streets. We were provided the responses to our comments along with a supplemental traffic analysis of the proposed project's impact on the Atlantic Avenue and Firestone Boulevard interseetion and the Garfield Avenue and Firestone Boulevard intersection. As noted above, the City has not been provided sufficient time to review this new information. As should be clear from our
preliminary responses below, we remain very concerned about this project's potential impacts to our City.
In the remainder of this letter, we have outlined some key issues that remain to be addressed. (We have
organized and numbered our individual comments so they could be readily cross-referenced in the Final
EIR.)

PAGET

.. -et
June 22, 2020 Comments on the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Project Final EIR
::

We had a commment regarding an incomplete or incorrect listing of cumulative project. The County's response stonewalls on why completeness and correctness is not needed (though we disagree), especially when correct information was provided. Some of these additional projects are located immediately adjacent to the proposed project. The Final EIR's list of projects remains incomplete, with comments and responses simply referring back to the original list that was included in the Draft EXR.

We still have a concern that the draft EIR did not consider the City of Downey's Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Specific Plan in the analysis even though a Notice of Preparation (NOP) had been issued in August of 2017, and even though the County is already proceeding with a project at the: former American Legion site within the Specific Plan areas The responsè too: comments did not address our original concern other than just restating the information that the necessary information was included in the Draft EIR. :.

The Final ETR is still incomplete in that it does not indicate why the separately approved sports
center project was omitted from the list of cumulative projects. The response to comment does
not indicate why the potential new development located within the south campus. area wäs omitted from the listing of cumulative impacts. The original comment was specifically concerned as to the remaining 39 aexes of the 74 acres south campus area. The response simply restates the
methodology used in the development of the cumulative project list. The Final EIR response fails
to identity the future use of the 39-acre portion of the south campus area and no effort was made
to identity potential development. 3: 1

We continue to be concerned regarding the lack of specificity concerning the project description. We stand by our original comment that, given the degree of planning that has been undertäken to date, that many project elements such as bullding location, size, and height are not precisely known.

We are still unclear as to how a NOP is circulated for a draft ETR on the Downey specific plan :

update when it is currently unknown as to how much development is going to occur. If this is the case what is that draft EIR going to analyze in terms of potential development?
The two additional related projects identified in our comment letter (American Legion site and Tweedy Atlantic) were omitted from the Draft EIR because they are relatively small in relation to the proposed project. The response goes on to say that the use of the ambient growth factor eliminates the need for discussing these projects in the context of cumulative impacts. Our point was to indieate that these two projects were not included and, as a result, how many others in the area were also missed? -•

The responses to our comments regarding the aestheties and architectural design still did not address our concerns regarding the lack of specificity. Ow request that measures ensuring that light and glare impacts could be fully mitigated and fully enforced has been ignored.

"The Final EIR (Response B5-26) quoted a section of the Draft EIR that stated the following "the analysis of shade and shadow impacts is provided on page 3, 1-26, which states that shade- sensitive uses near the project site include residential uses, open space and a school, and commercial and retail oses are not considered shade-sensitive We indicated in our comment that this narrative is not an analysis and we would also emphasize that residential land uses are sensitive receptors related to shade shadow impacts.

: E

PAGE 2:

June 22, 2020 d
Comments on the Rancho Los Amigow South Campus Project Final EIR * v5 *.28:

We were pleased (Response B5-33) that the County has completed the consultation and added mitigation to ensure the site's cultural significance will be maintained to the extent possible.
The Final EIR (Response B5-38) still did not indicate an estimate of the amount of potential contaminated construction debris that might result from the project.
g 0 *c
The Final EIR (Response B5-39) seems to contradiet itself by first affirming that no lane closure outside.of the project site would occur but then states that * a lane closure, if required, would be proposed and implemented by those jurisdictions when the improvemment takes place."
. ..

We continue to disagree with the Final EIR's statement regarding an inconsistency with an adopted land use plan (general plan, specifie plan, conservation plan, etc.) and that any such inconsistency should not be regarded as a significant impact. The Rinal ETR response simply goes on to donfirm that the proposed project is inconsistent with an adopted Specitic Plan and is silent •as to compliance with Government Code Section 65402(b).

The Final EIR (Response B5-46) does not fully address the City of South Gate's concerns. While the Final EIR concludes that 55 percent of project-related vehicle trips are forecasted to utilize Erickson Avenue for access to and from Gardendale Street via Intersection No. 16 (Erckson Avenue / Gardendale Street), daily (24-hour) traffic volume data/forecasts under existing and future conditions are not identified for Gardendale Street, An analysis and forecast of existing 24- hour daily traffic volumes on Gardendale Street is not included despite the high volume of vehicle. trips to be generated by the project, and despite the fact the Gardendale Street has a two-lane roadway. Such analysis is warranted due to the significant traffic impacts that the proposed project. will have on Gardendale Streét at its: intersections with Monroe Avenne, Industrial
Avenuo, Arizona Avenue and Paramount, for which mitigatione have been considered infeasible and are therefore not proposed. While the ICU method falls short of ylelding feasible mitigation measures, the requested analysis would provide additional information that could be utilized to develop feasible mitigation mneasures that address the signiticant traffic impacta. The City of South Gate requires that Los Angeles County amend the traffic study to include additional traffic analysis. The City of South Gate also requires that the County fully fund and construct/install all
mitigation as part of the project.
The Final EIR (Response 35-43) refers the reader to the traffle analysis provided in the Draft EIR even though the City's original comment concerned with the lack of noise modeling from cut- through traffic that could affect the residential neighborhoods. This information is still not
provided.

The Final EIR (Response B5-46) includes additional new information regarding external access to the project site. The Final EXR states, "With yespect to external access, 55 percent of project related vehicle trips would utilize Erickson Avenue for access to/from Gardendale Street via Intersection No. 16 (Erickson Avenue / Gardendale Street) to the south of the project site, and 45 percent of project related vehiele trips would utilize Erickson Avenue to travel to/ from Imperial Highway to the north of the project site.* Conceding a violation of CEQA, the response states that, while this access was evaluated in a traffic analysis, it was not included in the Draft EIR. Since 55 percent of the total project trips would utilize this access, we do not agree this change does not warränt the recirculation of the draft EIR.

::.4

The Final EIR (Response B5-47) referenced a South Gate project that utilized a fair share a
improvement strategy in one of their projects and in this example South Gate specifically
:

PAGE 3

June 22, 2020
Comments on the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Project Final EIK

identifted the needed improvement as well as the specific cost that would be required. This in fact supports our argument that the failure to do this in the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus project is problematic. The City of South Gate noted on the Draft ETR that the project will have significant traffic impacts at certain intersections for which mitigation measures are identified yet not proposed to be implemented or constructed as a part of the project. Instead of proposing to construct the mitigation measures as a part of the project, the Draft EIR proposed that Los Angeles County provide a fair-share contribution towards. thé installation of the mitigation measures to the City of South Gate and others. The Final EIR states the same. The County attempta to justify this position by indicating that the impacted improvements are under joint jurisdiction with the City of South Gate and other cities; intersections are already "operating at or forecast to operate at congested conditions (s.g.y LOS C through F); proposed mitigations would improve LOS conditions substantially beyond the project's impact which CRQA does not require; and that the City of South Gate has expressly recognized the concepts of fair-share improvements in their own mitigation measures Ceiting the 2405 Southern Avenue development and the Los Angeles Community College District's project [South Gate Educational Center Master Plan Projecti). The City of South Gate opposes the fair shave proposal as this approach could, in essence, result in having no physical mitigation measures implemented on Gardendale Street after the project is constructed. This is not a reasonable approach given the high volume of trips proposed by the project, and the significant traffc impacts on Gardendale Street. As such, the City of South Gate requires that the County fully fund and construet/install all mitigation
measures as a part of the project. out to2 -

The Final EIR (Response B5-48) critieizes the comment prepared by South Gate for not providing au analysis of the specific impact or a description of the mitigation for the intersection of Arizona Street and Gardendale Avenue. In fact, it is the tole of the EIR preparers to analyze these impacts along with any intended mitigation. The City of South Gate requested that more analysia be conducted at significantly impacted intersections determined by the County not to have a feasible mitigation measures, where the impact at such intenrsections was proposed to remain significant: and unavoidable. Ofher than explaining the analysis that was conducted in the Draft EIR and explaining that CEQA does not require discussion of mitigation measures which are considered infeasible, the County goes on to indicate that the City "does not provide specific suggestions or
recommendations as to potentially feasible LOS mitigation measures." The City of South Gate
requires the County to performn the requested additional analysis. The City of South Gate further requires the County and its engineering team, not the City, to develop feasible mitigation measures for the Project. Finally, the traffic study did not adequately conduct the signal warrant analysis at the intersection of Gardendale. Street and Arizona Avenue, and other intersectione
along Gardendale Street, utilizing all g warrants per 2014 CA MUTCD.. The warrants to install a
traffic signal are not solely based on traffic volumes. They are also based on pedestrian volumes, roadway network, coordinated system, school crossings, intersections near at-grade railroad crossings and peak-hours: It is noted that Saint Pius X, Saint Matthias Academy is located on Gardendale Street as is the UPRR at-grade crossing next to the project site. The City of South Gate requires that the traffic signal analysis be completed with all 9 warrants.

We appreciate that the supplemental traffic study has. been completed to evaluate the proposed project impact on the intersections of Atlantic Avenue / Firestone Boulevard and Garfield Avenue Firestone Boulevard. One of the reasons the City of South. Gate requested that the traffic analysis include the Atlantic Avenue / Firostone Boulevard and Garfield Avenue / Firestone
Boulevard intersection in the traffic analysis, was to give more significance to Garfield Avenue and Atlantie Avenue in the trip distribution model. It is not reasonable to minimize project- related trip distribution on Garfield Avenue and Atlantic Avenue due to their proximity to the

PAGE 4

June 22, 2020 Comments on the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Project Final KIR

project site. In fact, the traffic study does not assign any vehicle trips traveling north on Garfield
Avenue stating, "trips are not assumed to leave the project site traveling north on Garfield Avenue." This statement is made despite the fact that 55% of ingress / egress to the project site will decur via the intersection of Erickson. Avenue and Gardendale Street, which is located
approximately 1,600 feet from the Garfield Avenue and Gardendale Street intersection. Such
statement is further made despite the seven factora identified in the Rinal EIR that were used to
determine how project-related trips entering and exiting the site should be distributed, of which
proximity was one. Instead of assigning an acceptable volume of project-related trips to Atlantic

:: Ave and Garfield Avenue, the Final EIR states "trips on surface streets are primarily assigned to Old River School Road, Paramount Boulevard, and Lakewood Boulevard Road as these arterials
lead to residential neighborhoods to the north of the project site" all of which corridors are mainly
in the City of Downey. The City of South Gate notes that (a) Atlantic Ave and Garfield Avenue
also provide access to residential neighborhoods ag the City of South Gate has over 96,000 residents. Citywide, and (b) the Lakewopd and Gardendale intersection is 1.4 miles from the
Erickson Avenue and Gardendale Street interseetion which proximity is approximately one mile further than Garfield Avenue. Finally, the Final EIR states "Garfield Avenue generally parallels the I-710 Freeway; therefore, regional trips are assigned to the freeway rather than Garfield Avenue, as shown on Figure 7-4." This assumption fails to recognize that Atlantic Avenue and Garfield Avenue are utilized by motorists as alternatives to the congested I-710 Freeway during
peak-hour traffi. An acceptable volume of project trips assigned to the freeway should be re-
assigned to Aflantic Avenue and Garheld Avenue. We would further note that the Final EIR does not. take into account the current I-710. Freeway improvements that are taking place and will continue to take place until the foreseeable future. Knowing that, lane closures and delays must
be expected as part of those freeway improvements, further impacting traffic volumes on Garfield Avenue and Atlantic Avonue. In light of all these facts, the City of South Gate requests that the traffie study be amended to assign an acceptable number of projéct-related vehicle trips to Atlantic Avenue and Garfield Avenue and that the traffie analysis be amended.
The Final EIR (Response B5-50) did not address the original comment, in which we were concerned about the use of cut-through traffic and potential impacts on Gardendale Street. While additional analysis was provided, unfortunately the County has not given the public sufficient time to thoroughly review it *

The Final EIR (Response B5-50) did not address the City's comment and no additional analysis is
found in the Final EIR that analyzes the potential impact of cut-through traffic in the residential
neighbothood bounded by Gardendale Street, Paramount Boulevard, Garfield Avenue and the f-
105 Freeway. Further, the City of South Gate's justification and request to assign project-related
trips to Wright Road (northhound and southbound) was addressed unacceptably with a statement
that indicates "No Project-related trips are forecast to utilize Wright Avenue north of Abbott
Road." The City of South Gate hereby re-issues its original comment and requests a forthright
answer. *83 E 4

The Final EIR: (Response No. B5-51) did not adequately address the City of South Gate's comment. The City of South Gate reiterates that it is not reasonable to forecast that the profect will not produce northbound or southbound trips north of the intersections of (a) Garfield Avenue and Garfield Place, and (b) Garfield Avenue and Imperial Highway. Garheld Avenue is the only
north/south regional corridor in the City west of the I-710 Freeway. It is in close proximity to the project site; it provides primary access to Imperial Highwayt it serves as an alternative to the I- 710 Freeway particularly when the freeway is congested in the AM and PM peak hour traffic 2:

PAGK 5

June 22,2020 -13
Comments on the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Project Final KIR
times; and It provides access to heavily populated residential and commercial centers, The City of South Gate requires that the traffic study be amended to assign an acceptable volume of Project- related trips to Garfield Avenue at said intersections, and that the traffic analysis be amended.
The Final EIR (Response No. B5-52) continues to maintain the position that the mitigations measures be assigned to the project on a fair share cost basis. The County attempts to justify its position by indicating that the impacted improvements are under joint jurisdiction with the City. of South Gate and other cities, intersections are already "operating at or forecast to operate at congested conditions (e.g. LOS C through E); and proposed mitigations would improve LOS conditions substantially beyond the project's impact which CEQA does not requite; and that the City of South Gate has expressly recognized the concepts of fair-share improvements in their own mitigation measures (citing the 2405 Southern Avenue development and the Los Angeles Community College District's project [South Gate Educational Center Master Plan Project]), The City of South Gate opposes the fair share proposal ag this approach could, in essence, result in having no physical mitigation measures implemented on Gardendale Street after the Projéct is constructed. This is not a reasonable approach given the high trip generation proposed by the Project. The City of South Gate requires that the County fully fund and construct / install all mitigation measures as a part of the project.
Final EIR (Response No. B5-53) in response does not adequately address the City of South Gate's concerns for the intersection of Garfield Avenue and Monroe Avenue.. The City of South Gate is
concerned that the Final EIR proposes not to implement mitigation measures as a part of the
project at this intersection which has been determined to be significantly impacted by the Project, citing absence of a feasible mitigation measures. The City of South Gate proposed measures that could be considered hy the County to, at a minimum, address the operational and safety issues that the City of South Gate is projecting would result from the Project. Rather than identifying feasible measures to address the potential issues, the Final EIR reiterates why a traffe signal is not warranted, and why the City of South Gate's proposed measures were "considered infeasible as it would cause secondary adverse impacts by redirecting traffic to other residential streets." The County however fails to quantify and analyze the alleged secondary adverse impacts to other residential streets and intersections that it claims will result from the recommended mitigation
measures, Therefore, it is unknown if the potential impacts would in fact be adverse or significant. The Iinal EIR further indicates "The measures identified by the commenter are either
not feasible and / or would not reduce the significant and unavotdable impact at Intersection No. 7 (Garfield Avenue/ Monroe Avenue)." The City of South. Gate disagrees that the measures are not feasible. Further, this conclusion fails to recognize the potential operational and safety issues that the City of South Gate forecasts could result at and near this intersection from the project. As
such, the City of South Gate hereby re-issues its comment and requests a forthright answer.

The City of South Gate (refer to Response No. B5-54) requested a determination as to whether the "road diet" design established by the cities of South Gate and Downey on Gardendale Street would
be adaquate for future traffic conditions with the Project. The Final EIR's response focuses on the

1 intersection analysis, further admitting that "four-intersections along Gardendale Street are
forecast to be significantly impacted by traffe due to the project." The Final EIR indicates that
For all of the intersections, impacts would be significant and unavoidable with the exception of at
Intersection No. 16 (Erickson Avenue Gardendale Street) where implementation of the
mitigation measure cannot be guaranteed because dt involves approval by the eities of South Gate and Downey." This response recognizes that the ICU method used by the traffic study fails to
VA:
N

PAGE 6

June 22, 2020 Comments on the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Project Final ER
produce feasible mitigation measures. Given that 55% of vehicle trips will access the Projeet via Erickson Avenue and Gardendale Street, The City of South Gäte again requests that the County analyze the road diet to determine if it can properly support existing with Projects and future with Project traffic volumes.

The P'inal EIR (Response No. B5-55) includes no additional tratfic analysis in response to the Clty of South Gate's comment. The Public Works Department hereby re-issues its the potential impaet to the residential neighborhood bounded by prior comment as
•Gardendale Street, Garheld Avenue, Paramount Boulevard and the I-105 Freeway has not been determined.
The Final EIR (Response No. B5-56) includes no additional analysis for Main Street, Arizona Street, and Industrial Avenue based on the City of South Gate's comment. The City of South Gate reiterates its concerns due to the potential impact of the project, and hereby re-issues its comment and requests a forthright answer. **

8 The Final EIR (Response B5-57) is requesting back-up documentation to validate the LOS F for AM and PM peak hours at Imperial Fighway and Garfeld Avenue, (See attached 2018 Traffic Analysis.) The County should be responsible to fully fund its share of cost to mitigate improvements as part of the project.

The Final EIR (Response 05-61) states that Garfield Avenue and Paramount Boulevard do not intersect. The intersection in question for left turn phasing improvements is Paramount Boulevard at Gardendale Street. The County shall be made responsible to fully fund their cost ta mitigate improvements as part of the project. Further, this request ig that the County conduct analysis to further mitigate traffic impacts with traffic signal synchronization of the intersections on Paramount Boulevard and Garfield Avenue.

Compounding the overall failure of the Draft and Final EIRs to adequately address the project's construction and operational hraffie impacts is the County's fallure to identify and commit to fully enforceable mitigation that is not illusory and will actually work. As moted in the Dräft EIR's Executive
Summary Ip. ES-1o], three out of four of the project's construction-related transportation impacts willl supposedly be mitigated to a level of insignificance by mitigation measure MM-TRA-4. MM-TRA-I evinces no commitment today to any mitigation whatsoever. Instead, it merely ineludes a non-exclusive. list of seven bulleted measures that "may" or may not he included in a Construction Traffic Mitigation Plan (CTMP) that "shall [e&, in the future] be developed by the contractor and approved by the County to alleviate construction period impacts." (Draft EIR p. 3.11-16.) MM-TRA-1 fails to evince any commitment by the County to any specific concrete measures to reduce construction-related impacts on transportation to. a level of insignificance. Compounding this the Final EXR makes a one-word chauge to MM-TRA-4 that profoundly waters it down as a mitigation measure by substituting the noun "consultation" for the verb "coordinate" In its second-to-last bullet. In the CEQA context, these words have a significant
difference of meaning. Thus, with this single word change, the County no longer will have to actually work with the city in which the project will be constructed to ensure adequate emergeney service access; County now merely has to "consult" with that city and is free to ignore its concerns-and that is even the assuming this bullet ultimately finds its way into a future CTMP.

PAOE7

June 22, 2020 Comments on the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Project Final EIR

The City of South Gate looks forward to the County's response to our aforementioned comments on the
Final EIR. As previously stated, we are requesting a 30 to 60-day extension before the County considers certifying the Final EIR in order to allow adequate time for the City and members of the public to review

jperez@sogate.org. the Final EIR and the supplemental information provided therein. Should you have any questions regarding this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me at (562) 563-9566 or by e-mail at

Sincerely,
due Rug Joe Perez
Community Development Director

Co: Mr. Cliff Stokes, Project Manager

e

'evt : T 9009 32W

PAGE 8 A 113% •

EXHIBIT 2

LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION

9841 IRVINE CENTER DRIVE, SUITE 230
IRVINE, CALIFORNIA 92618
(949) 585-6300
FAX: (949) 585-6305
JOHN G. McCLENDON
john@@CEQA.cOM August 31, 2020

Via United States Postal Service
Ms. Celia Zavala, Executive Officer and
Clerk of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors 856 Kenneth Hahn Hall of Administration
500 West Temple Street, Suite 383
Los Angeles, CA 90012

Re: Notice of Commencement of Action - Public Resources Code Section 21167.5
Approval of the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus Project and Final EIR

Dear Ms. Zavila:

Please take notice that the CITY OF SOUTH GATE intends to commence an action against the County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors to set aside its approval of the Rancho Los Amigos South Campus project (the "Project"). The litigation will challenge (among other things) the certification of the final environmental impact report prepared for the Project and will allege (among other things) the County's and its Board of Supervisors' violation of the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code 21000, et seq.), the State Guidelines for Implementing CEQA (Title 14, California Code of Regulations, § 15000, et seq.), the Planning and Zoning Law (Gov. Code § 65000, et seq.), as well as other applicable laws and regulations. The grounds for these allegations were previously provided to the County's appointed and elected decision-making bodies by members of the CrrY OF SOUTH GATE and others during the administrative processing and review of the Project.
This notice is provided to you pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.5.

Very truly yours,

LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN, P.C.

Tohn G. MoClendon
By: John G. McClendon

PROOF OF SERVICE

I declare that I am over the age of 18 and not a party to the within action. I am
employed in the County of Orange, State of California, and my business address is 9841 Irvine Center Drive, Suite 230, Irvine, California 92618.
On August 31, 2020, I served the foregoing document entitled "Notice of Commencement of Action - Public Resources Code Section 21167.5" on the County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors by placing the original of such document in a sealed envelope addressed as follow:

Mr. Dean C. Logan, Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk
for the County of Los Angeles
12400 Imperial Highway Norwalk, CA 90650

Z BY MAIL: I am "readily familiar" with this firm's practice for collection and
processing correspondence for mailing. Under that practice, it would be deposited
with the U.S. Postal Service on the same day this declaration was executed with postage thereon fully prepaid in the ordinary course of business. Following this firm's practice, I caused such envelope with fully prepaid postage to be placed for collection and mailing at the United States Post Office in Bonsall, California.

0 BY OVERNIGHT COURIER: I caused such envelope to be deposited in a box or other facility regularly maintained by 0 OVERNITE EXPRESS; O FEDERAL EXPRESS; _[specify name of servicel with delivery fees fully provided for, or I delivered the envelope to a courier or driver of such service.

0 BY FACSIMILE: I served a copy of said document(s) on the parties in this action. The facsimile transmission was reported as complete and without error, and a copy of the transmission report issued by the facsimile machine is attached hereto.

X [State] I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that
the above is true and correct.

0 [Federal] I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct and that am employed in the office of a member of the bar of this court at whose
direction the service was made.

Executed on August 31, 2020, at Fallbrook, California.

John G. MoCbendon
John G. McClendon

LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN
A PROFESSIONAL CORPORATION

9841 IRVINE CENTER DRIVE, SUITE 230
IRVINE, CALIFORNIA 92618
(949) 585-6300
FAX: (949) 585-6305
JOHN G. McCLENDON
john@CEQA.com

September 10, 2020

Via United States Postal Service

Honorable Xavier Becerra, Attorney General
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
1300 "I" Street
Sacramento, California 95814-2919

Re: City of South Gate v. County of Los Angeles, et al.
[Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 20STCP02807]

Dear Mr. Becerra:

Enclosed please find a copy of the Petition for Writ of Mandate in the above-referenced action. This copy is provided to you in compliance with Public Resources Code section 21167.7. The action will challenge (among other things) the certification of the final environmental impact report prepared for the Project and will allege (among other things) the County's and its Board of Supervisors' violation of the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code § 21000, et seq.), the State Guidelines for Implementing CEQA (Title 14, California Code of Regulations, § 15000, et seq.), the Planning and Zoning Law (Gov. Code § 65000, et seq.), as well as other applicable laws and regulations. The grounds for these allegations were previously provided to the County's appointed and elected decision-making bodies by the CITY OF SOUTH GATE and others during the administrative processing and review of the Project.
Please acknowledge receipt of the enclosed Petition for Writ of Mandate. Unless you request otherwise, we will not serve on your office any documents other than this initial pleading and any amended or supplemental initial pleadings. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and please do not hesitate to call me if you would like to discuss this matter further.

Very truly yours,

LEIBOLD McCLENDON & MANN, P.C.

John G. McClendon

By: John G. McClendon

i

PROOF OF SERVICE
declare that I am over the age of 18 and not a party to the within action. I am employed in the County of Orange, State of California, and my business address is 9841 Irvine Center Drive, Suite 230, Irvine, California 92618.
On September 11, 2020, I served the foregoing described as "Letter to California Attorney General transmitting copy of Petition for Writ of Mandate" by placing it in a sealed envelope addressed as follow:

Honorable Xavier Becerra, Attorney General CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE - OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
1300 "T* Street
Sacramento, California 95814-2919

X BY MAIL: I am "readily familiar" with this firm's practice for collection and processing correspondence for mailing. Under that practice, it would be deposited with the U.S. Postal Service on the same day this declaration was executed with postage thereon fully prepaid at Santa Ana, California, in the ordinary course of business. Following ordinary business practice, I caused such envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid to be placed for collection in the United States Mail at Santa Ana, California.

0 BY OVERNIGHT COURIER:*I caused Such envelope to be deposited in a box or other facility regularly maintained by O GOLDEN STATE OVERNIGHT;  FEDERAL EXPRESS; O -[specify name of servicel with delivery fees fully provided for, I or I delivered the envelope to a courier or driver of such service.

0 BY FACSIMILE: I served a copy of said document(s) on the parties in this action. The facsimile transmission was reported as complete and without error, and a copy of the transmission report issued by the facsimile machine is attached hereto.

X [State] I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
above is true and correct.

0 [Federal] I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct and that am employed in the office of a member of the bar of this court at whose direction the service was made.

Executed on September 11, 2020, at Santa Ana, California.
Lunybis Carmen Ortiz

NECEIVEN
SEP 20. 2020

BY:-____________