- Mariah C. Thompson (SBN 301989)

2 Marisol F. Aguilar (SBN 294796) Ilene J. Jacobs (SBN 126812)

3 CALIFORNIA RURAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INC. 3747 E. Shields Avenue
Fresno, CA 93726
4 Telephone:(559) 441-8721

5 Facsimile: (559) 441-0724
Attorneys for Petitioner,
6

7

8 IN THE SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF TULARE

10 TERRA BELLA VOICE FOR CHANGE Case No.:

11 Petitioner,
12 VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF

VS. MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR

13 COUNTY OF TULARE: BOARD OF INJUNCTIVE AND DECLARATORY

14 SUPER VISORS OF THE COUNTY OF TULARE, RELIEF

TULARE COUNTY RESOURCE
15 MANAGEMENT AGENCY, DOES 1-10 (CCP §§ 526, 527, 1060, 1085, 1094.5;

16 Respondent. California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code § 21000 et seq.)

17

18 SETTON PISTACHIO CO., INC., DOES 1-10

19 Real Parties in Interest

20 INTRODUCTION

21 1.

22 This action challenges the County of Tulare's (the County) failure to comply with the

23 California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) in approving an expansion of a large industrial pistachio

24 processing facility (the Project) owned and operated by Real Party in Interest Setton Pistachio Co. Inc.

25 (Setton), located in Terra Bella, California. The County's failure to comply with its CEQA obligations

26 allowed it to evade environmental review and any public involvement regarding a controversial expansion

27 of a facility that had only five days earlier become subject to a cease and desist order to address its history

28 of emitting noxious wastewater odors that filled the community and disrupted citizens' lives.

2. Terra Bella is a small unincorporated community in Tulare County, with about 3,300

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page

t residents, primarily of low-income agricultural workers of Mexican descent. In the center of Terra Bella

2 is the Setton Pistachio of Terra Bella plant (Setton facility), a towering industrial facility that processes

3 over a million pounds of pistachios annually and has been expanding for decades without environmental

4 review or protections for the community. The facility shares a property line with several single-family
5 homes and is across the street from the most populated residential area in the community. It is less than

6 half a mile from an elementary school and a middle school. The Setton facility and Setton's grip on the

7 community have been expanding over time as the facility purchases residents' homes, demolishes them,

8 and converts the open space into additional pistachio orchards.
9 3. The County has allowed ongoing expansion of the Setton facility over decades without

10 environmental review, to the detriment of Terra Bella families. In addition to dozens of massive storage

11 silos and processing equipment, the County recently allowed Setton to construct an experimental 25-acre

12 wastewater storage pond to hold 350 acre-feet of wastewater from the facility's pistachio processing

13 operation. No environmental review was conducted on the pond project and no measures were put in place
14 to protect families in Terra Bella from any environmental impacts that this experimental project might

15 have. In less than two years, the pond created a stench of sewage so strong that it could be detected from
16 over a mile away. The odor prevented residents from spending time outside, hurt local businesses, reduced
17 property values, and caused some residents to move away.

18 4. Petitioner Terra Bella Voice for Change (TBVC) is a group a of community residents that

19 united to demand relief from the sewage odor. Together the community submitted over a hundred odor

20 complaints and five hundred signatures demanding action by decision-makers to address the problem. The
21 County of Tulare did nothing to address the problem they had created by refusing to conduct

22 environmental review of the wastewater pond project. Yet the residents ultimately prevailed, and on

23 August 13, 2020, the Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board (CWB) approved a cease and
24 desist order (CDO) against Setton prohibiting it from continuing to maintain a public nuisance due to the

25 sewage odor emanating from its wastewater pond.

26 5. Only six days after the CDO was issued against the Setton facility, and without informing
27 the signatories to the CDO or providing any prior public notice, the County approved another expansion

28 of the Setton facility without any environmental review. This expansion was approved on August 18, 2020

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 2

-

2 and is the action at issue in this petition. Respondents Tulare County and the County's Resource

3 Management Agency (RMA), and Real Party in Interest Setton, pushed through the approval for the

4 expansion, hiding it from residents until the last minute, and denying the public the opportunity to
participate in the process.

5 6.

6 Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that Real Party in Interest Setton,

7 with the knowledge and consent of the County, had completed all, or nearly all, of the expansion before

8 it even applied for the building permits. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that the

9 County knew it was approving permits for structures already unlawfully built when the Board of
Supervisors unanimously approved the project.

10 7.

11 The Project would result in a massive expansion of the facility, increasing the storage

12 capacity nearly 50% from 90 million to approximately 133 million pounds of pistachios. It includes the

13 construction and operation of twenty-four colossal storage silos, each holding up to 1.2 million pounds

14 of pistachios, construction and ongoing operation of gas-fired silo heater units, receiving/precleaning

15 lines, cyclones, wet hulling units, gas-fired dryers, a break room, an electrical utility room, and a new
pipeline across the Setton property to carry wastewater to nearby orchards and fields. All in addition to
16 Setton's existing facility, which includes more than 70 silos, 125,000 square feet of warehousing,
17 wastewater ponds, dozens of dryers, nearly 200 silo heaters, pre-roasters and roasters, steam generators,

18 and dehydrators, and fumigation operations.

19 8. Instead of conducting a full environmental review of the Project under CEQA, the County
20 improperly utilized an Addendum to a mitigated negative declaration (MND) for an entirely different
21

22 project, the 2015 Terra Bella Community Plan Update to approve the Project. Because addendums are

23 used for evaluating only minor technical changes and additions to previously adopted negative

24 declarations, they do not require public review and participation. Therefore, by using an addendum, the
County was able to work in secret with Setton to

25 prepare the application and hide the existence of the

26 Project from the public, all while publicly proclaiming its commitment to the wellbeing of Terra Bella

27 families and negotiating the CDO to address the sewage odors created by the facility.

9. The County claims that the industrial expansion may be approved via the Addendum to the
28 MND because it does not propose changes to the Terra Bella Community Plan Update (the Community

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 3

1 Plan or TBCP). But the RMA's and County's use of an addendum is impermissible because the document

2 the addendum relies on-the TBCP a MND--did not consider a massive expansion of the Setton facility

3 and contains no useful information about the expansion. Rather, the MND evaluated an entirely different

4 project with totally different environmental effects. The TBCP MND evaluated the environmental impacts

5 of changes to the Zoning Ordinancechanges not involving the Setton parcels where the Project will be

6 located-and the impact of a small amount of projected growth. Those environmental impacts are very

7 different than the environmental impacts of a substantial expansion of an industrial facility. The TBCP

8 MND explicitly states, more than forty times, that it does not evaluate the environmental impacts of any

9 individual project. CEQA does not permit an agency to use an addendum to approve an entirely different

10 project than the one evaluated in the initial environmental document, especially where, as here, the

11 environmental analysis in the MND does not retain informational value to analyze the environmental

12 effects of the new project.

13 10. The County also claims that no new environmental impacts will arise from the project and

14 thus an environmental review is not necessary. However, in justifying this claim, the County fails to apply

15 the appropriate analysis standards under CEQA. The County fails to analyze the environmental impacts

16 of both the construction and operation of the facility, including operation at full capacity after the
17 expansion is complete, as required by CEQA. The County also misrepresents an odor mitigation plan
18 developed by Setton by order of the State to address nuisance odors caused by the facility at its current

19 capacity, claiming without substantial evidence that the odor plan will prevent any odors even when the

20 facility significantly expands.
21 11. The Project will substantially expand an industrial facility immediately adjacent to the

22 main residential area of a small community and has the potential to create significant environmental
23 impacts for residents. By relying on the Addendum, the County unlawfully evaded a full environmental

24 analysis of the Project and failed to identify and implement mitigation measures that would address these
25 impacts.

26 12. The County also subverted the public review process for a highly controversial facility by

27 delaying public notice as long as possible and by failing to make necessary documents available for public

28 review. The County and Setton planned the expansion outside the public eye. There was no public notice

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 4

-4

2 of the existence of the Project until the agenda for the meeting for the final project approval was posted
less than seventy-two hours before the meeting on the County's website. Despite the fact that the
3 Addendum was for the TBCP MND, none of the links the County provided to the TBCP MND worked,

4

5 and a diligent search of the County's websites and the internet, including archived webpages, revealed

6 that the TBCP MND could not be located by the public in advance of the hearing date.

13.

7 Even though the Project will significantly expand an industrial facility that has a history of

8 creating a public nuisance with documented adverse impacts on more than five hundred residents, the
public had no opportunity to engage

9 with the process. The public thus was denied what CEQA is meant
to provide: information that allows the public to understand the environmental impacts of proposed
10 projects, and a meaningful opportunity to participate in the process wherein those projects are evaluated

11

12 and approved. The residents that did learn about the Project did not do SO because of any efforts by the

13 County to inform them. Rather, a small local media website published a short summary of the expansion
the day before the Board of Supervisors hearing. The County never circulated the Addendum for public
14| comment, electing instead to hide the Project from the community until the last possible moment. There

15

16 was simply no opportunity for residents to learn about the project, ask questions, and provide comments

17 about the potential impacts it would have on their community and the environment.
14.

18 While the County provided no opportunity for residents to participate in the project

19 approval, any adverse negative environmental impacts resulting from the project will be borne by residents

20 of Terra Bella, an at-risk and vulnerable community with little political power. Terra Bella is 93.7% Latino
of Mexican origin with high levels of Limited English Proficiency, based on the 2018 American
21 Community Survey. The median household income is $24,640. Many residents in the community are
22 farmworkers, some of which must work for the same company causing a public nuisance in their
23 community.

24 15. Many residents in the community live in a residential area immediately adjacent to the
25 Setton facility and are subjected to high levels of dust, emissions, truck and employee traffic, noise,
26 offensive odors, displacement, and other environmental effects that have a negative impact on their health,
27 wellbeing, safety, and use and enjoyment of their property. Exposure to adverse environmental impacts
28 for extended periods of time affects the health and safety of residents. Many children in the community

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page

have asthma that is exacerbated by the truck emissions, nuisance odors, dust, stationary-source emissions

2 and pesticides associated with pistachio production and processing. Terra Bella ranks in the top 5% of the
state for PM 2.5 and ozone pollution, top 25% for pesticide pollution, top 6% for groundwater threats, and

4 top 10% for poverty. The County's failure to comply with environmental laws will have a disproportionate
impact on an especially vulnerable population.

6 16. Petitioner Terra Bella Voice for Change opposed the County's approval of the Addendum
in both written and oral comments to the Tulare County Board of Supervisors on August 18, 2020.

8 Petitioners stated that (a) the County's reliance on the Addendum was improper as a matter a of law because
9 CEQA Guidelines §15164 did not apply, (b) the Project triggered conditions in Guidelines §15162 that

10 mandated subsequent environmental review, (c) the County may not rely on the Addendum to approve an

11 entirely different project than that evaluated in the TBCP MND, (d) the County failed to evaluate the

12 whole of the Project, including both construction and operations at the increased capacity, (e) the Project

13 would cause significant environmental impacts that must be evaluated and mitigated, (f) the County failed

14 to present substantial evidence that the odor control plan designed to address nuisance odors created by
15 the operations at current capacity would prevent nuisance odors during operations at the increased
16 capacity, and (g) the County improperly evaded public review of the project knowing it was controversial

17 and that the facility had only six days earlier become subject to a cease and desist order due to the noxious

18 odors the facility created.

19 17. The Board of Supervisors failed to address any of the concerns and unanimously approved
20 the Addendum on August 18, 2020. The County prejudicially abused its discretion and failed to proceed

21 in the manner required by law, and its failure to comply with its CEQA obligations necessitated the filing

22 of this action.

23 18. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that the County revised the

24 Agenda Item prepared for the Board of Supervisors regarding the Project after the Project was approved

25 and without making the revised Agenda Item (Revised Agenda Item) available to the public in advance of

26 the meeting. The Revised Agenda Item added new justifications for the County's reliance on an addendum

27 to approve the Project. The County's actions frustrated public participation and denied members of the
28 public any opportunity to address the material in the Revised Agenda Item before or during the Board of

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 6

F Supervisors hearing.

2 19. The County filed a Notice of Determination with the County Clerk's office on August 20,

3 2020. Petitioner requested a copy of a resolution approving the Project but the County has not provided

4 one as the date of this filing; the only associated resolution provided by the County is unnumbered, states

5 the incorrect date of the Project approval, and is not executed.

6 20. Petitioner respectfully requests that the Court grant this Petition, issue a writ of mandate

7 directing Tulare County to vacate and set aside its approval of the Project and the Addendum, and order
both Respondents and Real Parties in Interest to suspend any and all Project activities that may cause a 8

9 physical change in the environment unless and until they have fully complied with CEQA. Petitioner also
10 requests that the Court issue a judicial declaration to the effect that the Addendum does not comply with

11 CEQA and shall not be relied upon by the County or any other public agency.
12 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

13 21. This Court has jurisdiction over the matters alleged in this petition pursuant to §526, §527,
14 § 1060, § 1094.5 (or, in the alternative, § 1085) of § the Code of Civil Procedure, and § 21168 (or, in the
15 alternative, § 21168.5) and § 21168.9 of the Public Resources Code.
16 22. Venue for this actión is proper in the Court pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 393(b)
17 because the cause of action alleged in this Petition arose in Tulare County, where the Project is located

18 and would be carried out. Venue is also proper in this Court pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 394
19 because Tulare County is a respondent.

20 23. Petitioner has complied with the requirements of Public Resources Code $ 21167.5 by

21 serving a written notice of Petitioner's intent to commence this action by personal, postal, and electronic
22 service on the County on September 14, 2020. A true and correct copy of this written notice and proof of
23 service are attached as Exhibit A to this Petition.

24 24. Petitioner has complied with the requirements of Public Resources Code $ 21167.7 and

25 Code of Civil Procedure § 388 by furnishing the Attorney General of the State of California with a copy
26 of the Petition. A true and correct copy of this written notice and proof of service is attached as Exhibit B
27 to this Petition.

28 25. Petitioner is complying with the requirements of Public Resources Code § 21167.6 by

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 7

concurrently filing notice concerning preparation of the record of administrative proceedings related to

2 this action.

3 26. Petitioner has performed any and all conditions precedent to filing the instant action and

4 has exhausted any and all available administrative remedies to the extent possible as required by law.

27. Petitioner does not have a plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at law because Petitioner and

6 its members will be irreparably harmed by the County's violations of CEQA in approving the Project, and

7 by the ensuing public health and environmental impacts of the facility expansion that will occur without

8 further environmental review.

9 PARTIES

10 28. Petitioner Terra Bella Voice for Change (TBVC) is an unincorporated association of Terra

11 Bella residents, registered with the State of California, whose mission is to advocate for the health and

12 wellbeing of residents in the community of Terra Bella through education and advocacy. TBVC

13 participated in the administrative process for the Project by submitting comments and speaking at the

14 Board of Supervisors hearing on August 18. 2020 when the County approved the project. TBVC was also

15 a designated party in the August 13, 2020 hearing for the stipulated cease and desist order between the

16 CWB and Setton to address the odor nuisance caused by the wastewater pond.

17 29. The interests that TBVC (Petitioner) seeks to further in this action are within the goals and

18 purposes of the organization. Petitioner and its members have a direct and beneficial interest in the
19 County's compliance with the laws bearing on the Project. These interests will be directly and adversely

20 affected by the Project, which violates the law as set forth in this Petition, and which would cause

21 substantial harm to Petitioner's members, the natural environment, public health, and the quality of life in
22 the Terra Bella community. The maintenance and prosecution of this action will confer a substantial

23 benefit on the public by protecting the public from the environmental and other harms alleged herein.
24 30. Respondent County of Tulare (County) is, and at all times relevant to this action was, a

25 political subdivision of the State of California responsible for regulating and controlling land use within
26 || Tulare County and for implementing and complying with the provisions of CEQA as well as other state

27 and local laws.

28 31. Respondent Board of Supervisors of the County of Tulare (Board) is, and at all times

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 8

relevant to this action was, the duly elected decision-making body of Respondent County of Tulare. As

2 the decision-making body, the Board is charged with responsibilities under CEQA for conducting a proper

3 review of the proposed Project's environmental impacts and granting the various approvals necessary for

4 the Project. The Board is responsible for implementing and complying with the provisions of CEQA in
connection with land use planning and development projects occurring in the County. The Board and its

6 members are sued in their official capacities.

7 32. Respondent Tulare County Resource Management Agency (RMA) is listed as the Lead

8 Agency on the Notice of Determination related to the Project filed with the County Clerk on August 20,

9 2020. Based on information found on a website maintained by RMA, Petitioner is informed and believes

10 and therefore alleges that RMA is responsible for, among other things, "inspection services, permits,

11 environmental planning documents and reports, community plans, as well as the Tulare County General

12 Plan, and zoning codes and entitlements" in the County of Tulare. The RMA "prepar[es] environmental
13 documents such as exemptions, negative declarations and environmental impact reports for public and

14 private projects for which a land use entitlement application is being processed."1

15 33. Petitioner is unaware of the true names and capacities of Respondents Does 1 through 10

16 and sues such respondents by fictitious names. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges

17 that the fictitiously named respondents are also responsible for the actions described in this Petition. When

18 the true identities and capacities of these respondents have been determined, Petitioner will amend this

19 petition, with leave of the Court if necessary, to insert such identities and capacities.

20 34. Real Party in Interest Setton Pistachio Co., Inc. (Setton), is listed as Applicant on the Notice
21 of Determination related to the Project filed with the County Clerk on August 20, 2020. Petitioner is
22 informed and believes and therefore alleges that Setton is corporation initially registered in the State of

23 California in 1986. According to its 2019 Statement of Information filed with the California Secretary of

24 State, Setton is registered with the State of California as a pistachio processing company with its principal
25 executive office in Commack, New York and principal business office in Terra Bella, California.

26 35. Petitioner is unaware of the true names and capacities of Real Parties in Interest Does

27

28
County of Tulare, Resource Management Agency, at https://tularecounty.ca.gov/rma/index.cfm/planning- building/environmental-planning/, (visited September 10, 2020).

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page

through 10 and sues such real parties in interest by fictitious names. Petitioner is informed and believes

2 and therefore alleges that the fictitiously named real parties in interest are also responsible for the actions
described in this Petition. When the true identities and capacities of these real parties in interest have been

4 determined, Petitioner will amend this petition, with leave of the Court if necessary, to insert such

5 identities and capacities.

6 STATEMENT OF FACTS

7 Project

8 36. The Project in this matter is the expansion of the Setton facility. Petitioner challenges the
9 Project as well as the County's use of an addendum to the Terra Bella Community Plan (TBCP,

10 Community Plan) Update Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) to approve the Project. The County

11 approved the Addendum and the Project on August 18, 2020.

12 37. The Project would install twenty-four new storage silos and related equipment for the
13 processing and storage of pistachios. Each silo will hold 1.8 million pounds of pistachios and will be

14 served by gas-fired fan/heater units. The Project will also include the construction and installation of two
15 receiving/precleaning lines, four cyclones, ten wet hulling units, twelve gas-fired dryers, break room,
16 and an electrical utility room in the main processing facility, as well as the construction and installation
17 of a pipeline across the Setton property to carry wastewater to land application areas, and the expansion

18 of Setton's land available for waste water application from 409 acres to 892 acres. The Project will result

19 in total storage capacity increase from 90 million to approximately 133 million pounds of pistachios.

20 Project Site
21 38. The Project Site is within the boundaries of Setton's existing facility, an eighty-acre

22 industrial pistachio processing facility located in the unincorporated community of Terra Bella in Tulare

23 County. Terra Bella is located approximately 42 miles north of Bakersfield and 65 miles south of Fresno,

24 Terra Bella is a small community comprised of approximately 3,300 residents, primarily agricultural

25 workers of Mexican descent.

26 39. Terra Bella's main concentration of residential, commercial, and industrial activity is
27 located within an approximately half-square-mile area. The Setton Pistachio facility occupies much of this

28 area and is in the southwesterly corner of Terra Bella. The Project shares a northern property line with

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 10

single-family residences and is bounded to the east by a concentrated residential area. Two schools are

2 located near the facility approximately half a mile away. Traffic serving the Setton facility utilizes the
main town thoroughfares. The pipeline expansion site is in an exclusive agricultural area on an
undeveloped area of Setton's property.

5 Expansion History

6 40. While this Petition challenges the County's approval of the Addendum and the expansion
Project, the Setton facility has a complicated and controversial history that informs the current dispute and

8 provides context for this Petition. Petitioner provides a condensed accounting of that history here.

9 41. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that the Setton facility has been
10 expanding for decades in a piecemeal fashion without environmental review under CEQA. Petitioner is

11 informed and believes and therefore alleges that Tulare County has issued the Setton Pistachio facility

12 permits to construct at least 70 silos, at least 125,000 square feet of warehousing, multiple unlined holding

13 ponds, and a 350-acre-foot wastewater holding pond without any review under CEQA. Petitioner is

14 informed and believes and therefore alleges that Setton's operation also includes dozens of dryers, nearly

15 200 silo heaters, pre-roasters and roasters, steam generators, and dehydrators, all gas-fired, as well as

16 fumigation operations permitted to emit up to 539 lbs of phosphine annually.

17 42. Petitioner submitted a request in October 2019 for all environmental review documents

18 from the construction of the facility to present. The County did not produce any draft or final

19 environmental impact reports, negative declarations, or mitigated negative declarations. The County did

20 produce a determination that the installation of the 350-acre-foot wastewater pond that would cause a

21 sewage-like nuisance odor was exempt from CEQA. Petitioner submitted a second a request in August

22 2020, and the County again did not provide any draft or final environmental impact reports, negative

23 declarations, or mitigated negative declarations. Based on the County's failure to provide any of these

24 documents in response to these requests, Petitioner believes and, on that basis, alleges that prior

25 expansions of the Setton facility were approved without CEQA review.

26 Odor Nuisance Violations Prevent Issuance of Expansion Permits

27 43. In 2015, the County utilized a CEQA exemption to approve a 25-acre wastewater storage
28 pond that would hold up to 350-acre-feet of pistachio processing wastewater. The pond was constructed

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 11

P adjacent to the facility and received wastewater that resulted from the pistachio processing operation. The
2 wastewater pond held the wastewater until it could be applied to the Land Application Area, where it

3 would be used to irrigate nearby orchards and fields.

4 44. Between 2018-2020, residents of Terra Bella submitted over 100 complaints and 500

5 signatures to the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District (Air District) and Central Valley

6 Regional Water Quality Control Board (CWB) complaining that the wastewater pond created sewage-

7 like odor that permeated the entire community and could be detected over a mile away. Residents
8 complained that the odor prevented them from using their property outdoors, kept their children from
9 playing outside, triggered asthma and headaches among other health impacts, and entered homes that

10 relied on swamp coolers, which many in the community do.

11 45. Both the Air District and the CWB investigated residents' complaints. The Air District
12 issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) to Setton on June 24, 2019 for violating District Rule 4102, which
13 prohibits a facility from causing a public nuisance. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore
14 alleges that the Air District opened an ongoing investigation resulting from the NOV that lasted several
15 months, during which time the Air Board repeatedly inspected the facility and determined the odor

16 nuisance was still present.

17 46. The CWB issued a NOV to Setton on June 25, 2019 for failure to keep objectionable odors

18 originating from the facility within the limits of property owned or controlled by Setton and for creating

19 a condition of nuisance as defined by the California Water Code, Section 13050. Petitioner is informed
20 and believes and therefore alleges that Setton implemented a number of changes in response to the NOVs

21 but that these initial changes did not abate the odor nuisance.

22 47. Setton submitted an Application to the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District

23 (Air District) in September 2019 for an Authority to Construct (ATC) a new pistachio hulling and

24 processing facility, stating in its application that the facility must be constructed before the 2020 pistachio
25 processing season. The application proposed to install one pre-cleaning line with two receiving pits, each

26 with two cyclones, eight natural gas fired dryers, twelve silos, twenty-four natural gas fired fan/heater

27 units and wet processing line. The project in this application was approximately half the size of the current

28 Project.

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 12

-4 48.

2 Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that the Air District did not issue

3 an ATC for the twelve-silo processing facility, stating in a letter in October 2019 that Setton had not

4 provided evidence showing that it would be able to operate the expansion project without creating a public

5 nuisance. Petitioner is informed and believes ad therefore alleges that the Air District advised Setton that

6 it would not approve an ATC for an expansion project until Setton had demonstrated that it could do so.
49.

7 In December 2019, Setton submitted a Revised Report of Waste Discharge (RWD) to the

8 CWB that requested an increase in wastewater discharge limits from the facility from 60 million gallons

9 annually to 140 million gallons annually SO as to expand its operations to include a new hulling plant

10 expected to begin operating in 2020. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that the

11 "hulling plant" referenced in the RWD, which would process an additional 168,000 lbs of pistachios

12 annually, refers to the twelve-silo expansion proposed in the ATC application Setton submitted to the Air
District in September 2019.

13 50.

14 The CWB deemed the RWD incomplete in January 2020 and requested Setton provide

15 additional details necessary to demonstrate that the increase was feasible without violating any applicable

16 discharge requirements mandated by state law. Between January 2020 and April 2020, Setton submitted
a number of revised RWDs, but each time the CWB found them incomplete because Setton had failed to
17 demonstrate that an increase of wastewater discharge was feasible within applicable laws, and because

18

19 Setton had still not demonstrated it could operate an expanded facility without causing a public odor

nuisance.

20 51.

21 In April 2020 Setton submitted a revised ATC application to the Air District for the

22 expansion project. The revised application was for a substantially larger expansion than that which was

23 described in the September 2019 ATC application, essentially doubling the number of silos, hullers,

24 heaters, and processing lines. The revised April 2020 application sought an ATC for one-precleaning line

25 with two receiving pits with cyclones, twelve dryers, twenty-four silos, forty-eight heaters, and associated
processing lines.

26 52.

27 approve Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that the Air District declined to

28 the April 2020 revised ATC application because the Air District did not believe Setton had
demonstrated it could operate the expansion without creating a public odor nuisance.

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 13

CWB Stipulated Cease and Desist Order

2 53. In May 2020, after further resident complaints about the odor from the Setton wastewater
3 pond, the CWB issued another NOV to Setton for its ongoing failure to operate without creating a public

4 odor nuisance. The CWB stated that due to the ongoing nuisance violations, the CWB would be seeking
formal enforcement actions against the facility at a future CWB meeting.

6 54. Setton Pistachio responded to the May 2020 NOV in two letters on June 9 and June 12,

7 2020. In its June 12, 2020 response, Setton withdrew its request to increase its wastewater discharge limits.

8 Setton promptly again revised its application for an ATC for the twenty-four-silo expansion project to the

9 Air District, citing its withdrawal of the RWD request to increase its wastewater limits as evidence that

10 the facility could operate without creating a public nuisance. Petitioner is informed and believes and
11 therefore alleges that the Air District again declined to issue the ATC for the expansion because the CWB

12 had not yet determined that the facility could operate even at its current capacity without creating nuisance

13 conditions.

14 55. Setton Pistachio and the CWB began negotiating a stipulated Cease and Desist Order

15 (CDO) for the Terra Bella facility in or about late June 2020 and early July 2020 as part of the CWB's

16 formal enforcement against the facility for the ongoing nuisance conditions. A hearing was scheduled on

17 the CDO for August 13, 2020. Petitioner was granted Designated Party status to participate in the CDO

18 hearing and participated in negotiations between Setton and the CWB to arrive at a stipulated CDO. All

19 parties eventually agreed on a stipulated CDO, which was approved at the CWB's August 13, 2020

20 hearing.

21 Unlawful Facility Expansion Without Permits

22 56. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that as of the date of this filing,

23 the Air District has not issued any ATC or Permits to Operate to Setton for any expansion of the Terra

24 Bella facility, including the first, smaller expansion proposed in late 2019.

25 57. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that sometime prior to the hearing

26 for the CDO, Setton unlawfully constructed some, if not all, of the Project at-issue in this Petition without

27 any ATCs from the Air District or permits to operate the new equipment. Petitioner is informed and
28 believes and therefore alleges that the expansion constructed by Setton, and at issue in this Petition, is

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 14

-

2 significantly larger than the expansion described in Setton's June 2020 revised application for an ATC,

3 and that Setton never submitted an ATC application for the Project approved by the County on August
18, 2020.

4 58.

5 The Air District became aware of the unlawful construction and issued a Notice of
Violation to Setton on August 27, 2020 for "Commencing Construction on the East Pistachio
6 Receiving/Hulling, Storage, and Silo Fumigation Operation without an Authority to Construct."

7 59.

8 Petitioner submitted a Public Records Act Request (PRAR) to the County on September 2,

9 2020 requesting any and all documents relied upon for the approval of the Project at the August 18, 2020.

10 The PRAR also requested all building permits issued by the County from October 2019 to present in

11 relation to the Setton facility. Petitioner had previously requested and received building permits prior to

12 October 2019 dating back multiple years. The County failed to produce any building permits issued in

13 relation to the expansion. Therefore Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that Setton

14 illegally constructed most, if not all, of the Project at issue in this Petition without building permits, ATC

15 from the Air District, or any environmental analysis, and that the County sought to retroactively approve
building permits for the expansion by way of the Project and Addendum at issue in this case.
16 Terra Bella Community Plan Mitigated Negative Declaration Addendum
17 60.

18 On August 18, 2020 Petitioner RMA requested that the County approve the Project by
adopting an addendum to the Terra Bella Community Plan Update Mitigated Negative Declaration (TBCP
19 MND). The TBCP MND was adopted by the County in 2015 to evaluate minor land use changes and

20 changes to the Zoning Ordinance that impacted select parcels in the Terra Bella community. The
21 Addendum and Project had not been evaluated by the Planning Commission, and no determination
22

23 regarding the issuance of the permits had previously been made by the RMA or its authorized
representatives.

24 61.

25 Respondent RMA stated in the Agenda Item accompanying the Addendum that the

26 Addendum was being prepared in response to the CDO entered into between the CWB, Setton, and

27 California Rural Legal Assistance, Inc., Petitioner's counsel. Yet both Petitioner and the CWB were

28 entirely unaware that Respondent RMA and Real Party in Interest Setton were pursuing an expansion to
the Setton facility until a few days before the August 18, 2020 Board of Supervisors meeting. While

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 15

Petitioner and the CWB were negotiating the stipulated CDO in good faith, Setton was simultaneously

2 working out-of-view with Respondent RMA to expand the Setton facility further without environmental

3 review or ATC from the Air District.

4 62. By relying on the Addendum, the County evaded requirements to provide public notice of

5 the Project, effectively hiding the controversial project from the community of Terra Bella until the last

6 possible minute. Petitioner is informed and believes and therefore alleges that the County did not provide

7 any notice of the Project to the public until it posted the agenda for the August 18, 2020 Board of

8 Supervisors meeting less than 72 hours before the meeting. On the agenda was an item relating to approval

9 of the Addendum (Agenda Item). The links to the Terra Bella Community Plan Update Mitigated Negative

10 Declaration (TBCP MND) in the Agenda Item were non-functional and a diligent search did not produce

11 the document anywhere on the County's website or the internet.

12 63. The RMA stated in the Addendum that "[bJecause the Project is consistent with the TBCP,

13 and none of the triggering events under Section 15162 of the CEQA Guidelines have occurred, the County
14 has determined than an Addendum to the IS/MND is appropriate." The RMA took this position even

15 though the project evaluated in the TBCP MND is an entirely different project than the Project the County

16 approved by adopting the Addendum.
17 64. The project evaluated by the TBCP MND was a "comprehensive update of the Terra Bella

18 Community Plan." The TBCP is essentially a planning document; it rezoned some areas of the community

19 and approved by-right uses in some zones. It did not rezone any parcels where the Project will be located.

20 The only parcels near the Setton facility that were rezoned as part of the TBCP are a series of residential

21 parcels to the north of the facility that were rezoned to add a mixed-use overlay. Because the TBCP

22 rezoning did not affect the Project location, no environmental analysis related to the Project occurred in

23 the TBCB MND. The TBCP MND also specifically states at least forty-six times that no specific
24 development projects (such as residential, commercial, or industrial uses) were proposed as part of the

25 plan and therefore no specific development proposals were being evaluated as part of the plan update.

26 65, The RMA also justified its use of the Addendum by asserting that conditions that would

27 trigger subsequent environmental review of the TBCP MND pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15162
28 had not occurred, such as a substantial change in the project or the circumstances under which the project

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 16

F was undertaken, or the identification of new information of substantial importance which was not and

2 could not have been known at the time of the adoption of the TBCP MND.

3 66. The RMA asserted in the Addendum that the project would not create any significant
environmental impacts. In making this assertion, the RMA relied on reports, memorandum, and plans that

5 were not prepared for the Project as described in the Addendum. The technical report on tribal consultation

6 relied upon by the County includes tribal consultation letters that describe a project that is different than

7 the project approved by the County via the Addendum. The consultation letters include no information

8 about the installation of a pipeline, or construction of a break room or electrical utility room. The

9 consultation letters also state that the RMA was preparing a Negative Declaration for the Project, not an

10 Addendum.

11 67. The RMA also relied on an Air Quality Impact Analysis (AQIA) for the project that
12 describes the project as "the addition of up to twenty-four (24) new silos and related facilities and
13 equipment." The project description in the AQIA differs from the description for the Project evaluated in
14 the Addendum, and also describes the smaller 24-silo project Setton proposed to the Air District in June

15 2020 that significantly fewer facilities. Both projects include 24 silos, but the project described in the

16 AQIA does not include or evaluate construction of the electrical room, break room, or pipeline expansion.
17 It also does not specify what the 'related facilities' being evaluated are.

18 68. The RMA also relies on the Odor Control Plan which was designed to control odors at the

19 current capacity of the facility, The Odor Control Plan has not been approved by the Air District or the
20 CWB as appropriate for the expansion project. Nor has the Odor Control Plan ever been successfully
21 implemented to control nuisance odors at the current operating capacity during harvest season. The RMA

22 has not produced substantial evidence that the Odor Control Plan will control odor when the facility is

23 operating at higher capacity after expansion.
24 69. The Addendum specifically states that it is not evaluating an expansion of the volume of

25 wastewater discharged from the facility and that therefore no significant environmental impact to water

26 quality can occur. Yet the County failed to evaluate whether an increase in production and capacity
27 without an increase in discharge water will result in a higher concentration of contaminants in the
28 wastewater. The Hydrology Report submitted in support of the project cites the Central Valley-wide Salt

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 17

t and Nitrate Control Program's (CV-SALT) application to the project in support of the assertion that no

2 degradation of water quality will occur, yet the CV-SALT specifically states that voluntarily limitations

3 on the volume of water discharges can result in higher contaminant concentrations because less dilution

4 of contaminated water will occur. An increase in contaminant concentrations could violate Setton's
5 wastewater discharge requirements, impact the fields and orchards where wastewater is applied, and/or

6 create an offensive odor, even a without a change in overall volume. The RMA has not provided sufficient

7 evidence that significant environmental impacts will not occur if the production capacity of the facility is

8 increased without an increase in wastewater discharge. An increased concentration of contaminants is also

9 not evaluated under the Odor Control Plan on which the RMA relied.

10 Petitioner's Objections to the Project and Exhaustion of Remedies

11 70. The RMA and the County relied on the Addendum to review the project and failed to post

12 the agenda to the County website a reasonable time before the hearing, thereby obstructing public review

13 of the Project. Regardless, Petitioner, on extremely short notice, submitted written objections to the

14 County on August 17, 2020 and gave oral comments at the County Board of Supervisors meeting where

15 the Addendum was approved on August 18, 2020. Petitioner's objections stated that:
approve an 16 a. The County is not permitted under CEQA to rely on an Addendum to
17 entirely different project than the Terra Bella Community Plan Update that was evaluated in the MND.

18 The project evaluated in the TBCP MND was a "comprehensive update of the Terra Bella Community
... are currently 19 Plan.3 The project description specifically states that "no specific development projects

20 proposed and an unknown number of proposals may occur within the lifetime of the plan." The

21 Addendum, in contrast, involved a specific development project called the "Facility Capacity Expansion

22 Project," which will install twenty-four new silos, each holding 1.8 million pounds of pistachios, gas-fired

23 heaters and fans to serve the silos, two receiving/pre-cleaning lines, four cyclones, ten hulling units, twelve

24 gas-fired dryers, a break room, an electrical utility room, and a new pipeline across undeveloped land.

25 These are two entirely different projects, and the proposed Project must undergo a separate environmental

26 analysis.

27 b. The County would not be permitted to rely on an addendum even if the Project had
28| been contemplated in the TBCP MND because the project was not a minor technical change, and

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 18

r conditions had occurred that required subsequent environmental review of the project, such as a substantial

2 change proposed in the project and a substantial change in the circumstances under which the project was

3 undertaken. This was because the project evaluated in the MND, the TBCP Update, did not include the

4 construction or operation of this Project. The current Project proposed substantial changes in both the
5 TBCP project and the circumstances as it will include construction and operation of the expansion.
6
C. The Setton a expansion is a project as defined by CEQA that would result in direct
7 and foreseeable indirect changes to the environment, and therefore the County must conduct an
8 environmental analysis of the expansion. The County must evaluate the environmental impacts of the
9 "whole of the action" including construction of the project and operation at full buildout at its increased
10 capacity, which would represent a nearly 50% increase over current capacity. This review must include
11 an evaluation of wastewater usage for the increased production, truck traffic, VMT, air quality, odor,
12 noise, light, dust, and cumulative impacts.
13 d. Respondent RMA's claim that the expansion would not lead to significant offensive
14 odor impacts was not supported by substantial evidence. The RMA claimed that implementation of the
15 Odor Control Plan included with the proposed Addendum would prevent future offensive odors, yet the
16 Odor Control Plan was developed to attempt to address nuisance violations from operations at current
17 capacity, not expanded capacity. The Stipulated Cease and Desist Order (CDO) against Setton enjoining
18 it from creating additional noxious odors had been in place only three business days before the County
19 approved the Project. Respondent RMA and Real Party in Interest Setton failed to provide substantial
20 evidence that the facility could operate at current capacity through a processing season utilizing the Odor
21 Control Plan without creating a nuisance, let alone that Setton would not create a nuisance odor after its
22 production was increased by 50%.
23 e, The County is prohibited from piecemealing environmental review of the
24 expansion project. CEQA requires that the whole of a project be evaluated during an environmental
25 analysis. All phases of a project must be evaluated, including operation of the facility at peak capacity.
26 Instead of conducting environmental review of the entire project, the RMA attempted to impermissibly
27 piecemeal the project by failing to include in the analysis the increased wastewater discharge that will be
28 necessary to operate the facility at full expansion. Although the Addendum states that no increase in

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 19

-

2 wastewater is sought at this time, to fully operate at peak capacity without degrading water quality, an

3 increase in wastewater discharge will most likely be necessary and therefore should be evaluated. Further,
Setton has stated that it will submit new RWD to increase wastewater discharge limits in the future to
4 accommodate the expansion project.

5 f.

6 The County and RMA intentionally skirted their obligations under CEQA to allow

7 public review of the proposed Project. The RMA failed to provide an opportunity for public review of the

8 Proposed Addendum even though it seeks to implement a significant expansion of industrial production

9 in the middle of a populated area, with the nearest sensitive receptor only 500 feet away. The County's

10 attempt to utilize an addendum to approve the expansion Project appears to be an attempt to evade public
review of the

11 process, likely due to the controversial nature of the expansion given the public nuisance
created by the facility between 2018-2020.

12 71.

13 Several residents of Terra Bella provided public comments at the August 18, 2020 public

14 hearing opposing the Addendum and the expansion Project. Multiple residents stated that they were tired

15 of the facility expanding repeatedly without environmental review, and that the Setton facility already
created a public nuisance at its current size.

16 County Approval

17 72.

18 Legal counsel for Real Party in Interest and Project Applicant Setton Pistachio provided

19 oral comments at the Board of Supervisors meeting opposing Petitioner's position and asserting that the
County should approve the Addendum.

20 73.

21 Petitioner RMA provided a presentation to the Board of Supervisors stating that the

22 Addendum was permissible, and the Board of Supervisors went into closed session before making
determination on the application.

23 74.

24 After returning from closed session, each Board of Supervisors member individually spoke

25 about Setton. No Supervisor addressed any of the arguments made by Petitioner or residents regarding
CEQA inadequacies.

26 75.

27 The Board of Supervisors unanimously approved the Addendum on August 18, 2020. The

28 Notice of Determination was filed with the County Clerk on August 20, 2020.

/1/

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 20

r Revision of Agenda Item Includes New Arguments

2 76. Petitioner is informed mand believes and therefore alleges that the RMA prepared a

3 Revised Agenda Item (Revised Agenda Item) in support of the Addendum that was not available to the

4 public in advance of the Board of Supervisors meeting on August 18, 2020. Petitioner is further informed

5 and believes and therefore alleges that the County replaced the previous Agenda Item on the County

6 website with the Revised Agenda Item.

7 77. The Revised Agenda Item includes additional text justifying the County's reliance on an

8 addendum to approve the Project. Specifically, a newly inserted section states that:

9 Typically, this project would not require additional California

10 Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) documentation because both the
building permits and increases to land application of process water are
11 ministerial in nature and are allowed by right under the Light and Heavy
Industrial (M-1 and M-2) Zoning and the Exclusive Agricultural Zoning
12 (AE) Zones. However, both the Air District and Water Board require

13 additional CEQA review and approvals to be performed prior to their issuance of applicable permits. Given that the Setton facilities were covered
14 as a Project in the previously adopted Terra Bella Community Plan Update and the associated Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND), 15 it is appropriate to amend the IS/MND.
16

17 78. Because these documents were not available to the public in advance of the August 18,

18 2020 meeting, members of the public, including Petitioner, had no opportunity to address the new

19 arguments and justifications in comments to the Board of Supervisors prior to Project approval.

20 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION

21 VIOLATION OF THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT

22 (Public Resources Code sections 21000 et seq. and CEQA Guidelines sections 15000 et seq.)

23 79. Petitioner hereby realleges and incorporates by reference the preceding paragraphs in their

24 entirety.

25 80. CEQA is designed to ensure that government agencies incorporate the goal of long-term

26 protection of the environment into their decisions that may affect the environment. CEQA applies to any
27 discretionary action taken by an agency that may cause a reasonably foreseeable change in the
28 environment.

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 21

81. CEQA mandates that jurisdictions undertake a good faith effort to analyze foreseeable

2 direct, indirect, and cumulative environmental impacts of non-exempt projects. "Project" means the whole

3 of an action which has a potential for resulting in either a direct physical change in the environment or a

4 reasonably foresecable indirect physical change in the environment. A project's description must be

5 accurate, stable, and finite so it does not provide conflicting signals to decision makers and the public

6 about the nature and scope of the Project.

7 82. CEQA requires that an agency prepare an environmental impact report (EIR) whenever

8 substantial evidence in the record supports a fair argument that the project may have a significant impact

9 on the environment. The EIR evaluates and discloses a project's potential significant environmental a

10 impacts. Once an environmental analysis is completed, any subsequent analysis is limited to the same

11 project initially evaluated.

12 83. CEQA also serves to provide transparency and the opportunity for meaningful participation

13 of community members and decision-makers that may be impacted by a project. To this end,

14 environmental review documents must disclose the potential environmental impacts of a project,

15 mitigation measures that are feasible to address these impacts, and possible project alternatives. The

16 CEQA review process includes mandatory public review periods, public notice requirements, hearings,

17 opportunities for public comment on draft documents, and a requirement that the lead agency respond to

18 comments on draft documents.

19 84. An agency, when adopting project, must adopt all feasible mitigation measures to reduce

20 potential significant environmental impacts resulting from the project. Projects that will have unavoidable

21 significant environmental impacts may only be approved if there are no other feasible alternatives

22 available and the unavoidable impacts are outweighed by the benefits of the project.

23 85. Under CEQA, all findings required for a public agency's approval of a project must be

24 legally adequate and supported by substantial evidence in the administrative record. CEQA requires that

25 an agency provide an explanation of how the evidence in the record supports the conclusions the agency

26 has reached.

27 86. Pursuant to CEQA Guidelines § 15164, lead agency may rely on an addendum to an

28 adopted mitigated negative declaration to approve a project under only two circumstances: (1) if only

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 22

P minor technical changes or additions to the mitigated negative declaration are necessary, or (2) none of

2 the conditions described in the CEQA Guidelines at con 15162 that require a subsequent EIR or negative

3 declaration have occurred.

4 87. CEQA Guidelines § 15162 requires agencies to conduct a subsequent environmental

5 review of a project where (a) substantial changes are proposed to the project; (b) substantial changes occur

6 in the circumstances under which the project is to be undertaken; or (c) new information of substantial
7 importance emerges, and the changes or new information cause or demonstrate, respectively, new

8 significant environmental effects or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified

9 significant effects.

10 88. The County violated CEQA in multiple ways when it approved the Addendum.

11 89. The County improperly utilized the Addendum to approve a different project from the

12 project evaluated in the Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Terra Bella Community Plan Update

13 (TBCP MND). The project evaluated in the TBCP MND was a "comprehensive update of the Terra Bella

14 Community Plan." The Addendum involves an entirely different project, called the Setton Pistachio

15 "Facility Capacity Expansion Project," (the Project) that will install twenty-four new silos, install gas-

16 fired heaters and fans to serve the silos, two receiving/pre-cleaning lines, four cyclones, ten hulling units,

17 twelve gas-fired dryers, a break room, an electrical utility room, and a pipeline.

18 90. The TBCP MND has no informational value relative to the environmental review of the

19 expansion project. The TBCP MND did not evaluate the environmental impacts of any individual projects,

20 including industrial projects such as the Setton facility expansion. The TBCP contemplated rezoning

21 certain parcels in Terra Bella, but none of the parcels where the project will be located were rezoned.

22 Because the TBCP MND did not consider the environmental impacts of any specific development project,

23 it contains no informational value relative to the Project. Reliance on the Addendum in approving the

24 Project was therefore improper.

25 91. The County erred a as a matter of law because it misinterpreted CEQA Guidelines $ 15164

26 as authorizing reliance on the Addendum. CEQA Guidelines § 15164 does not apply here. The Project

27 would not require only a minor technical change or addition to the MND; on the contrary, substantial

28 revisions would be required because the Project will increase the processing facility's capacity by nearly

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 23

-

2 50%. This type of specific industrial project was not contemplated or analyzed in the MND.
92. Even if the TBCP MND did retain some informational value relative to the Project, reliance

4 on the Addendum would be improper because further environmental review is required pursuant to CEQA

5 Guidelines § 15162. Substantial changes in the project, and with respect to the circumstances under which

6 the project is undertaken, have occurred. These changes will require major revisions to the TBCP MND

7 due to the involvement of significant environmental effects, including but not limited to: significant

8 impacts related to emissions, air quality, traffic and vehicle miles traveled, dust, noise, odor, light and

9 glare, and groundwater quality, and more severe environmental effects that were not addressed in the

TBCP MND.

10 93.

11 The Addendum is inadequate because the project description fails to include reasonably

12 foreseeable activities associated with the Project and does not evaluate the whole of the Project. The

13 County attempts to improperly piecemeal the facility expansion by failing to evaluate the whole of the

14 Project after the expansion is completed and the facility is operating at full capacity during peak processing is

season.

15 94.

16 The County further violatec CEQA by approving an Addendum that failed to adequately

17 disclose, analyze, or mitigate the Project's significant impacts on the environment, including, but not

18 limited to: significant impacts related to emissions, air quality, traffic and vehicle miles traveled, dust,
noise, odor, light and glare, and groundwater quality.

19 95.

20 Although Respondents made no formal determination that approval of the Project was

21 ministerial, to the extent they implicitly made or relied on any such determination in adopting the

22 Addendum, that reliance was improper, unsupported by substantial evidence, and a prejudicial abuse of

discretion.

23 96.

24 As a result of the foregoing defects, Respondents prejudicially abused their discretion by

25 approving the Project and adopting an Addendum that does not comply with the requirements of CEQA

26 or the CEQA Guidelines and that precluded both meaningful public participation and informed decision-

27 making. As such, the County's adoption of the Addendum and approval of the Project must be set aside.
///

28 /11

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 24

SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION

2 DECLARATORY RELIEF

3 (Code of Civil Procedure section 1060)

4 97. Petitioner hereby realleges and incorporates by reference the preceding paragraphs in their

5 entirety.

6 98. An actual and immediate controversy has arisen and now exists regarding the legality of

7 the County's reliance on the Addendum in approving the Project.

8 99. The County improperly adopted the Addendum to approve a different project from that
9 evaluated in the Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Terra Bella Community Plan Update (TBCP

10 MND). The TBCP MND has no informational value relating to the environmental review of this Project,
11 as it did not evaluate the environmental impacts of any individual projects and only made minor land use

12 changes that did not anticipate significant expansion of the Setton facility.

13 100. The County erred as a matter of law because it misinterpreted CEQA Guidelines § 15164

14 as authorizing reliance on the Addendum because the Project would not require only a minor technical
15 change or addition to the MND; on the contrary, substantial revisions would be required because the

16 Project will increase the processing facility's capacity by nearly 50%.

17 101. Even if the TBCP MND did retain some informational value relative to the Project, reliance

18 on the Addendum would be improper because further environmental review is required pursuant to CEQA
19 Guidelines § 15162. Substantial changes in the project, and with respect to the circumstances under which
20 the project is undertaken, have occurred. These changes will require major revisions to the TBCP MND
21 due to the involvement of significant environmental effects, including but not limited to: significant

22 impacts related to emissions, air quality, traffic and vehicle miles traveled, dust, noise, odor, light and

23 glare, and groundwater quality, and more severe environmental effects that were not addressed in the

24 TBCP MND.

25 102. The Addendum is inadequate because the project description fails to include reasonably

26 foresecable activities associated with the Project and does not evaluate the whole of the Project. The

27 County attempts to improperly piecemeal the facility expansion by failing to evaluate the whole of the
28 Project after the expansion is completed and the facility is operating at full capacity during peak processing

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 25

season,

2 103. The County further violated CEQA by approving an Addendum that failed to adequately

3 disclose, analyze, or mitigate the Project's significant impacts on the environment, including, but not
limited to: significant impacts related to emissions, air quality, traffic and vehicle miles traveled, dust,

5 noise, odor, light and glare, and groundwater quality.

6 104. The Revised Agenda Item prepared by Respondent RMA indicated that the Addendum was

7 prepared primarily for the purpose of facilitating permitting by the Air District and CWD in relation to

8 the Project. A real and present controversy has therefore arisen regarding the validity of the Addendum

9 and whether the Air District and CWD properly may rely on the Addendum in their own permitting

10 processes.

11 105. A judicial declaration is necessary and appropriate at this time in order that the parties

12 ascertain their rights and obligations with respect to environmental review of the Project under CEQA and

13 the validity of the Addendum.
14 106. Petitioner therefore seeks a declaration that the County's action in adopting the Addendum
15 and approving the Project conflicts with the intent and purpose of CEQA, is an abuse of discretion, and

16 otherwise fails to comply with the law. Petitioner seeks a declaration that:

17 a. The County's approval of the Project violated CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines

18 b. The County's adoption of the Addendum violated CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines

19 C. The Project approval and Addendum may not be relied upon by any responsible

20 agency to take any action to implement the Project including (a) approving any permits, entitlements,
21 licenses, or authorizations pursuant to the Addendum, or (b) undertaking any activity under the
22 Addendum, pending full compliance with the requirements of CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines.

23 THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION

24 VIOLATION OF TULARE COUNTY ORDINANCE CODE

25 Chapter 15, Article 1, §7-15-100 et seq

26 107. Petitioner hereby realleges and incorporates by reference the preceding paragraphs in their

27 entirety.

28 108. Tulare County Ordinance Code Chapter 15, §§7-15-100 et seq. govern the issuance of

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 26

1 building permits in Tulare County.

2 109. Tulare County Ordinance Code §7-15-1040 provides that "the Resource Management

3 Director or authorized representative" shall determine whether it is proper to issue a building permit under

4 Cal. Gov't Code §66499.34, and whether the permit complies County Ordinance No. 352, Chapter 19 of

5 the Ordinance Code, Ordinance Code 17-19-1548, and "any other provisions of State law or this

6 Ordinance Code.3

7 110. §1-15-1040(b) states that a 'building permit shall not be issued until the Resource

8 Management Director or authorized representative certifies on the permit that such construction will not

9 be in violation of said laws and ordinances." §7-15-1040 does not provide for the approval of a building
10 permit by any official other than the "Resource Management Agency Director or authorized
11 representative(s)."

12 111. Tulare County Ordinance Code §7-15-1010 defines "Resource Management Agency
13 Director or authorized representative(s)" as the Associate Director, Assistant Director Public Works,
14 Assistant Director Planning Branch, Assistant Director Administration Branch, Fire Chief or their

15 designees. The Tulare County Board of Supervisors is not an authorized representative of the Resource

16 Management Agency as defined in the Tulare County Code.
17 112. The Tulare County Ordinance Code provides for Board of Supervisors involvement only

18 when an applicant seeks to appeal a determination by the Resource Management Agency Director or Fire
19 Chief or their authorized representatives. The appeals process is outlined in §7-15-1050, "Appeals," which

20 was suspended as of December 17, 2019 pursuant to §7-15-1050 (g).
21 113. The Tulare County Board of Supervisors role in the permitting process is therefore

22 governed by California Building Code §1.8.8, which provides that a jurisdiction's governing body shall

23 serve as an appeals board when no appeals board has been established. The Tulare County Board of
24 Supervisors may resolve building permit appeals, but the Ordinance Code does not grant it the authority
25 to approve building permits in the first instance.

26 114. Respondent RMA and Real Party in Interest Setton submitted for approval the Addendum
27 and Project at issue in this case, which consisted of the "issuance of building permits" to construct the
28 facility expansion. The building permits had not been evaluated by RMA or the Planning Commission

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 27

-

2 prior to being presented to the Board of Supervisors for approval, and no "determination by the Resource

3 Management Agency" had occurred that was appealable to the Board of Supervisors.

115.

4 The Board of Supervisors therefore had no authority to adopt the Addendum and approve

5 the Project. By doing so, the Board of Supervisors prejudicially abused its discretion and failed to proceed
according to law.

6 116.

7 Petitioner seeks an order from this Court commanding Respondents to set aside the Board

8 of Supervisors' approval of the Project as without legal authority, ultra vires, and void as a matter of law.
PRAYER FOR RELIEF

9 Petitioners pray for judgment as set forth below:

10 1.

11 For alternative and peremptory writs of mandate directing Respondents to:

a.

12 b. Vacate and set aside their adoption of the Addendum and any related findings; and
Vacate and set aside their approval of the Project, including Resolution No. 2020-
13 0516, building permits, a pipeline to increase the recycled wastewater land application area, and any other
14 permits, entitlements, licenses, or authorizations for the Setton Pistachio Capacity Expansion Project.

15 2.

16 For alternative and peremptory writs of mandate directing Respondents to comply with

17 CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines, and to take any other action as required by Public Resources Code
§ 21168.9;

18 3. For a temporary stay, temporary restraining order, and preliminary and permanent
19 injunction restraining Respondents and Real Parties in Interest and their agents, servants, and employees,

20

21 and all others acting in concert with them or on their behalf, from taking any action to implement the

22 Project including (a) approving any permits, entitlements, licenses, or authorizations pursuant to the

23 Addendum, or (b) undertaking any activity under the Addendum, pending full compliance with the
requirements of CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines;

24 4.

25 For a judicial determination and declaration from this Court that:

a.

26 The County's approval of the Project violated CEQA, CEQA Guidelines and the
Tulare County Ordinance Code
27 b.

28 The County's adoption of the Addendum violated CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines,
and the Tulare County Ordinance Code

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 28

1 C. The Project approval and Addendum may not be relied upon by any responsible

2 agency to take any action to implement the Project including (a) approving any permits, entitlements,
3 licenses, or authorizations pursuant to the Addendum, or (b) undertaking any activity under the

4 Addendum, pending full compliance with the requirements of the Tulare County Code, CEQA, the CEQA
5 Guidelines, and all other applicable laws;
6 5. For costs of the suit;
7 6. For attorneys' fees as authorized by Code of Civil Procedure § 1021.5 and other provisions
8 of law; and,
9 7. For such other and future relief as the Court deems just and proper.
10 Dated: September 18, 2020 CALIFORNIA RURAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INC.
11

12 M U

13 Mariah C. Thompson
14 Marisol F. Aguilar

15 Attorneys for Plaintiff

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 29

1 VERIFICATION

2 I am the attorney for Petitioner Terra Bella Voice for Change in this action. Petitioner is absent

3 from the County in which have my office. I have read the foregoing Petition and Complaint. I am

4 informed and believe that the matters in it are true, and on that ground allege that the matters stated in

5 the Petition and Complaint are true.

6 Executed this 1gth day of September, 2020 in the city and county of Fresno, California.

7 I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is

8 true and correct.

9

10

11 Attorney for Petitioner
12 Terra Bella Voice for Change

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief Page 30

EXHIBIT "A99

Terra Bella Voice for Change vs. County of Tulare, et al. Petition For Writ of Mandate

CALIFORNIA RURAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INC.

FIGHTING FOR JUSTICE, CHANGING LIVES

September 11, 2020

Via E-Mail and U.S. Mail

Chair Peter Vander Poel III and Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
Members of Board of Supervisors County of Tulare
2800 W. Burrel Ave 2800 W. Burrel Ave
Visalia, CA 93291 Visalia, CA 93291
E-Mail: pvanderpoel@co.tulare.ca.us E-Mail: clerkoftheboard@co.tulare.ca.us

Hector Guerra
Tulare County Resource Management Agency
5961 South Mooney Boulevard
Visalia, CA 93277
E-Mail: hguerra@co.tulare.ca.us

Re: Notification of CEQA Lawsuit
Terra Bella Voice for Change v. County of Tulare, et al.

To Whom it May Concern,

This letter notifies you that Terra Bella Voice for Change will file suit against the County of Tulare, Tulare County Board of Supervisors, and Tulare County Resource Management Agency for failure to comply with the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), Public Resources Code §21000 et seq., the
CEQA Guidelines, California Code of Regulations §15000 et seq. and other state laws in connection with the County's August 18, 2020 decision to approve an Addendum to the Terra Bella Community Plan Update Mitigated Negative Declaration in connection with an expansion of the Setton Pistachio of Terra Bella facility in Terra Bella. This notice is given pursuant to Public Resources Code §21167.5.

Petitioner will seek attorneys' fees under Code of Civil Procedure $1021.5. This letter provides notice of the same pursuant to Graham V. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34 Cal. 4th 553, 577. Petitioner recognizes the public interest would be best served if the County were to voluntarily comply with its statutory duties in order to avoid the unnecessary expenses of litigation. If the County is interested in attempting to resolve this matter short of
litigation, please contact me immediately.

Sincerely,
Md a

Mariah C. Thompson
California Rural Legal Assistance, Inc.
3747 E. Shields Ave
Fresno, CA 93726
mthompson@crla.org
(559) 441-8721

3747 E. Shields Avenue, Fresno, CA 93726 • Phone: 559-441-8721 • Fax: 559-441-0724 • www.crla.org TLT.SC

PROOF OF SERVICE

Terra Bella Voice for Change v. County of Tulare, et al. Tulare County Superior Court

1, Elizabeth C. Trujillo, declare as follows:
am employed with the law offices of CALIFORNIA RURAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INC.
My business address is 3747 E. Shields Ave., Fresno, California 93726. I am over the age of 18 years of
age, and not a party to this action.
On September 14, 2020septiembre 14, 2020, I served the foregoing document entitled:
NOTIFICATION OF CEQA LAWSUIT

by serving in the manner and/or manners described below to each of the parties herein listed:

Chair Peter Vander Poel III and Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
Members of Board of Supervisors County of Tulare
2800 W. Burrel Ave 2800 W. Burrel Ave
Visalia, CA 93291 Visalia, CA 93291
E-Mail: pvanderpoel@co.tulare.ca.us E-Mail: clerkoftheboard@co.tulare.ca.us

Hector Guerra
Tulare County Resource Management Agency
5961 South Mooney Boulevard
Visalia, CA 93277
E-Mail: hguerra@co.tulare.ca.us
By Mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure §1013a(3) as follows:
I am readily familiar with this firm's practice of collection and processing correspondence for mailing with the United States Postal Service. Under the practice the correspondence would be deposited with the United States Postal Service on that same day in the ordinary course of business with postage thereon fully prepaid at Fresno, California. Such envelope was sealed and placed for collection and mailing following ordinary business practices.
BY ELECTRONIC MAIL, I caused such documents to be scanned into PDF format and sent via electronic mail to the electronic mail addressee(s) of the addressec(s) designation.
BY PERSONAL SERVICE
above listed addressee(s). caused delivery of such envelope(s), by hand, to the office(s) of the

declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the above is true
and correct.

Executed on September 14, 2020,septiembre 14, 2020 Fresno, California.
Et CSLAI ELIZABETH C. TRUJLLO

:

EXHIBIT "B9

Terra Bella Voice for Change vs. County of Tulare, et al. Petition For Writ of Mandate

CALIFORNIA RURAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INC.
FIGHTING FOR JUSTICE, CHANGING LIVES

September 18, 2020

Via U.S. Mail

Xavier Becerra
Attorney General
California Department of Justice
1300 I Street
Sacramento, CA 95814-2919

Re: Notice of Filing of CEQA Litigation
(Terra Bella Voice for Change v. County of Tulare, et. al..)

Dear Attorney General Becerra:

of the Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate in the above-titled action. This Enclosed please petition is provided to find a copy you in compliance with Public Resources Code section 21167.7 and Code of Civil Procedure section 388. Please acknowledge receipt in the enclosed prepaid, self-addressed envelope.

Sincerely, M 0z
Mariah C. Thompson California Rural Legal Assistance, Inc.
3747 E. Shields Ave
Fresno, CA 93726
mthompson@crla.org
(559) 441-8721

3747 E. Shields Avenue, Fresno, CA 93726 Phone: 559-441-8721 • Fax: 559-441-0724 • www.crta.org 7LLSC

PROOF OF SERVICE

Terra Bella Voice for Change v. County of Tulare, et al. Tulare County Superior Court
I, Elizabeth C. Trujillo, declare as follows:
I am employed with the law offices of CALIFORNIA RURAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INC. My business address is 3747 E. Shields Ave., Fresno, California 93726. I am over the age of 18 years of age, and not a party to this action.
On September 18, 2020, I served the foregoing document entitled:

NOTICE OF FILING OF CEQA LITIGATION

by serving in the manner and/or manners described below to each of the parties herein listed:

Xavier Becerra
Attorney General
California Department of Justice
1300 [ Street
Sacramento, CA 95814-2919
By Mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure §1013a(3) as follows:
am readily familiar with this firm's practice of collection and processing correspondence for mailing with the United States Postal Service. Under the practice the correspondence would be deposited with the United States Postal Service on that same day in the ordinary course of business with postage thereon fully prepaid at Fresno, California. Such envelope was sealed and placed for collection and mailing following ordinary business practices.
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the above is true and correct.

Executed on September 18, 2020, Fresno, California. Ed AMN ELIZABETH C. TRUJILLO

PROOF OF SERVICE

Terra Bella Voice for Change v. County of Tulare, et al. Tulare County Superior Court

I, Elizabeth C. Trujillo, declare as follows:

am employed with the law offices of CALIFORNIA RURAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INC.
My business address is 3747 E. Shields Ave., Fresno, California 93726. I am over the age of 18 years of age, and not a party to this action.
On September 18, 2020, I served the foregoing document entitled:

NOTICE OF FILING OF CEQA LITIGATION

by serving in the manner and/or manners described below to each of the parties herein listed:

Xavier Becerra
Attorney General
California Department of Justice
1300 I Street
Sacramento, CA 95814-2919

By Mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure §1013a(3) as follows:
T am readily familiar with this firm's practice of collection and processing correspondence for mailing with the United States Postal Service. Under the practice the correspondence would be deposited with the United States Postal Service on that same day in the ordinary course of business with postage thereon fully prepaid at Fresno, California. Such envelope was sealed and placed for collection and mailing following ordinary business practices.
declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the above is true and correct.

Exccuted on September 18, 2020, Fresno, California.
Let CMd ELIZABETH C. TRUJLLO

$030 355 S3 6X10:10
d5n VILCOALA OLMEMYE

ATTORNEY GENERAL SAN DIEGO

2020 SEP 23 PM IO:40

CALIFORNIA RURAL LEGAL ASSISTANCE, INC.
FIGHTING FOR JUSTICE, CHANGING LIVES

September 18, 2020

Via U.S. Mail

Xavier Becerra
Attorney General
California Department of Justice
1300 I Street
Sacramento, CA 95814-2919

Re: Notice of Filing of CEQA Litigation
(Terra Bella Voice for Change v. County of Tulare, et. al..)

Dear Attorney General Becerra:

Enclosed please find a copy of the Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate in the above-titled action. This petition is provided to you in compliance with Public Resources Code section 21167.7 and Code of Civil Procedure section 388. Please acknowledge receipt in the enclosed prepaid, self-addressed envelope.

Sincerely, Ua
Mariah C. Thompson California Rural Legal Assistance, Inc. 3747 E. Shields Ave
Fresno, CA 93726
mthompson@crla.org
(559) 441-8721

3747 E. Shields Avenue, Fresno, CA 93726 • Phone: 559-441-8721 • Fax: 559-441-0724 • www.crla.org 7LLSC

OCT 0 1 2020