1 Steven A. Ehrlich, Esq. (SBN #070742) LAW OFFICES OF STEVEN A. EHRLICH
2 2601 Main Street, Suite 1200 Irvine, CA 92614
Tel: (949) 476-7095 Fax: (949) 474-0437

4 Attorney for Petitioners LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC and McALAND RANCH LLC

5

6

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 COUNTY OF TULARE®

10

11 LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC, a CASE NO.: 272527
California Limited Liability Company, and
12 McALAND RANCH LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, 13
Petitioners NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL
14
VS.
15
SOUTH VALLEY WATER BANKING
16 AUTHORITY, a Joint Exercise Of Powers Act Authority, and DOES 1 through 50, Inclusive, 17
Respondent
18
and
19
PIXLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT and
20 DELANO-EARLIMART IRRIGATION DISTRICT, and DOES 51 through 100,
21 Inclusive,

22 Real Parties In Interest.

23

24
TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA:
25
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that under Public Resources Code section 21167.7 and Code of
26
Civil Procedure section 388, that on January 25, 2018, LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC 27

28 AND McALAND RANCH LLC, filed a Verified Petition For Writ Of Mandate against SOUTH

-1-
NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL

1 VALLEY WATER BANKING AUTHORITY, a Joint Exercise of Powers Act Authority and

2 Real Parties In Interest, PIXLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT and DELANO - EARLIMART

3 IRRIGATION DISTRICT in Tulare County Superior Court. The petition alleges that

4 Respondent and the Real Parties In Interest violated the California Environmental Quality Act by

5 failing to prepare a full a Environmental Impact Report in connection with the approval of their

6 water banking project. A copy of the petition is attached to this Notice.

7

8 DATED: January 25, 2018 LAW OFFICES OF STEVEN A. EHRLICH

9

10 rle Steven A. Ehrlich
11 Attorney for Petitioners LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC,
12 and McALAND RANCH LLC

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

- 2-
NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL

1 PROOF OF SERVICE

2
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF ORANGE
3
I am employed in the County of Orange, State of California. I am over the age of 18 and
4 not a party to the within action. My business address is 2601 Main Street, Suite 1200, Irvine, CA 92614.

6 On January 30, 2018 I served the foregoing document described as:
NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL & SUMMONS

8 on the interested parties in this action by placing a true copy thereof enclosed in a sealed envelope addressed as follows (except as to facsimile transmissions):

9 PLEASE SEE ATTACHED SERVICE LIST

10 X BY MAIL:

11 deposited such envelope in the mail at Irvine, California. The envelope was mailed with postage thereon fully prepaid.

12 am "readily familiar" with the firm's practice of collection and processing

13 correspondence for mailing. Under that practice it would be deposited with U.S. postal service on that same day with postage thereon fully prepaid at Irvine,

14 California in the ordinary course of business. I am aware that on motion of the party served, service is presumed invalid if postal cancellation date or postage

15 meter date is more than one day after date of deposit for mailing in affidavit.
BY FEDERAL EXPRESS:
16 By using express mail service and causing to be delivered overnight next day

17 delivery a true copy thereof to the person(s) at the address set forth above.
BY FACSIMILE:
18 By transmitting before 5:00 p.m., the document(s) listed above to the fax numbers of the parties as set forth above.
19

20 Executed on January 30, 2018 at Irvine, California.

21 (FEDERAL)

22 I declare that I am employed in the office of a member of the bar of this court at whose direction the service was made.

23 X (STATE)

24 declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the above is true and correct.

25

26 fuuhar Elulec KATHRYN E. EHRLICH
27

28

- 1-

SERVICE LIST

LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC, et al. v. SOUTH VALLEY WATER BANKING AUTHORITY, et al.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA 213-897-2000 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
300 South Spring Street
Los Angeles, CA 90013-1230

SUM-100
SUMMONS FOR COURT USE ONLY
(CITACION JUDICIAL) (SOLO PARA USO DE LA CORTES)

NOTICE TO DEFENDANT: AdoD SMSAA RENANP AD HICR BANKING AUTHORITY, A Joint Exereise Of Powers Act Authority, and DOES 1 through 50, Inclusive, (Additional Parties Attachment form is attached.) YOU ARE BEING SUED BY PLAINTIFF: (LO ESTA DEMANDANDO EL DEMANDANTE):
LOS ALISOS RANCH LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, and MoALAND RANCH LLC, a California Limited Liability Company
NOTICEI You have been sued. The court may decide against you without your belng heard unless you respond within 30 days. Read the Information below, You have 30 CALENDAR DAYS after this summons and legal papers are served on you to fle a willen response at this court and have a copy served on the plainiifif. A letter or phone call will not protect you. Your written response must be in proper legai form if you want the court to hear your caSB. There may be a court form ihat you can use for your response. You can find these court forms and more information at the Cellfornia Courte Online Sell-Help Center (www.courtinfo.ca.gov/selthelp), your county law Nbrary, or the courthouss nearest you. If you cannot pay the fling fee, ask the court clerk for a fee walver form. If you do not file your response on time, you may lose the case by default, and your wages, money, and properly may be taken without further warning from the court. There are other legai requiremiente. You may want to cal an allomey right away. If you do not know an ettomey, you may want to call an attorney refertal service. If you cannot afford an attomey, you may be eligible for free legal services from a nonprofit legal services program. You can locate these nonprofli groups at the Callfomila Legal Sarvices Web alte (www.fawholpcaltfomia.org), the Celifomia Courta Online Self-Help Center (www.courtinfo.ca.gov/sellhslp), or by contacting your looal court or county bar assoclation. NOTE; The court has a statutory llen for walved fees and cosia on any settiement or arbitration awerd of $10,000 or more in a clvil case. The court's llen must be pald before the cour will dismiss the cass. JAVISO! Lo han demandado. S/ no responde dentro de 30 días, la corte puede decidir en su contra sin escuchar su vorsión, Lea la información a continuación. Tlene 30 DIAS DE CALENDARIO después de que le entroguon està cilación y papoles legales para presenter una respuesta por esprito en este corte y hacer que se ontregue una copia al demandanto. Una carta o una llamada taleiónica no lo protegen, Su respuesta por escrito tlene que estar en formato legel correcto s / desoa que procesen su caso en la corte. Es posible que haya un formulario que usted puede usar para su respueste. Puede encontrar estos formularios de la conte y mé s información en el Centro de Ayuda de las Cortes de Callamia (www.eucorte.ca.gov), en la biblioteca de leyes de su condado o en la corte que le quede más cerca. Si no puede pagar la cuota de presentación, pida al secretario de la corte que le de un lomulario de exención de pago de cuotes. Si no presenta su respuesta a tiampo, puede perder el caso por Inoumplimiento y ta coirte le podrá quitar su sualdo, dinero y blenes sin más adivertencia. Hay otros requisitas legales. Es recomendable que llame a un abogado inmediatamente. Si no conoce a un abogado, puede lamor a un sorvicio de remisión a abogados. Si no puede pagar a un abogado, es posibia que cumpla con los requisitos para obtener serviclos iegales gratuttos de un programa de sorvicios legales sin fines de fucro. Puede encontrar estos grupos sin lines de lucro en el silio web de Califomia Legai Servicas, twww.lawhoipcalifomla.org) en s/ Centro de Avuda de las Cortes de Califomia, (www.sucotte.ca.gov) o poniéndose en contacto con la corte o el colegio de abogados locales. AVISO: Porley, le corte tleine derecho a rectamarlas cuotes y los costos exentos por imponer un grevemen sobre cualquler recuperación de $10,000 ó más de valor recibida mediante un acuerdo o una conoesión de arbitraje en un caso de deracho cívil. Tiene que pager el gravamen de la corte antes de que la corte pueda desechar el caso.
The name and addrese of the court is: CASE NUMBER:
(El nombre y direcoión de la corte es): Tulare County Superior-Court (Ndmaro del Caso): '27 2 52 7 221 S. Mooney Blvd., #303, Visalia, CA 93291-1228

& The name, address, and telephone number of plaintiff's atiorney, or plaintiff without an attomey, is: (El nombre, la direcoión y el número de teléfono del abogado del demandante, del demendante que no tiene abogado, es): Steven A. Ehrlich, Esq., 2601 Main Street Suite 1200, Irvine, CA 92614; 949-476-7095
VIA (Focha) JAN 2 5 2018 Stephanie Camerofork, by. deosionsz Deputy DATE:
(Secretanio) - (Adjunto)
(For proof of service of this summons, use Proof of Service of Summons (form POS-010).) (Para prueba de entrega de esta citatión use el formulario Proof of Service of Summons, (POS-010)).
[GEALJ NOTICE TO THE PERSON SERVED: You are served
1. as an individual defendant.
2. as the person sued under the fictittous name of (speolfy):

3.2 on behalf of (spacity):
COURT SEAL under. 000x CCP 418.10 (corporation) CCP 416.60 (minor)
CCP 416.20 (defunct corporation) CCP 416.70 (conservatee)
CCP 416.40 (assoclation or partnership)| CCP 416.90 (authorzed person)
other (specity): CCP 1100.50 by personel delivery on (date): Paga f of 1
Form Adoptad for Mandalory Uss SUMMONS Code af CIVii Proceduro $5 412.20, 485 www.courinfo.ca.gov Judicial Coundd of Caltomnia 9UM-100 |Rev. Juty 1, 2009]

SUM-200(A)
SHORT TITLE: CASE NUMBER:

LOS ALISOS RANCH v. SO. VALLEY WATER BANKING AUTH.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
This form may be used as an attachment to any summons if space does not permit the listing of all parties on the summons. If this attachment is used, insert the following statement in the plaintiff or defendant box on in the summons: "Additional Parties
Attachment form is attached."

List additional parties (Check only one box. Use a separate page for each type of party.):
- Plaintiff M Defendant Cross-Complainant Cross-Defendant

PIXLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT and DELANO-EARLIMART IRRIGATION DISTRICT, and DOES 51 through 100, Inclusive,

Page of

Page 1 of 1
Form Adopted for Mandatory Use
Judicial Council of California ADDITIONAL PARTIES ATTACHMENT
SUM-200(A) [Rev. January 1, 2007] Attachment to Summons

FU C TULARE COUNTMFERIOR COURT

Steven A.Ehrlich, Esq. ......... VIBALIA DIVISION

COPY (SBN #070742) LAW OFFICES ÖF STEVEN A. CHRLICH 2601 Main Street, Suite 1200 JAN 25 2813

3 Irvine, CA 92614 Tel: (949) 476-7095 STEPHANE CAMENCN, CLERK
Fax: (949) 474-0437. Blndacctoirtdarinor

5 Attorney for Petitioners LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC and McALAND RANCH LLC

6

8

9 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

10 COUNTY OF TULARE

11

12 LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC, 4 California Limited Liability Company, and CASE NO.:

13 McALAND RANCH LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, 272 52 7

14 •Petitioners

15 VS.

SOUTH VALLEY WATER BANKING VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF

16 MANDATE (Violation of the California

17 AUTHORITY, a Joint Exercise Of Powers Act Authority, and DOES Environmental Quality Act); [Code of

through 50, Inclusive, Civil Procedure §g 1021.5, 1085, 1094.5; Public Resources Code § 21000 et seq.]

18 Respondent

and
19

"VIA FAX" PIXLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT and 20 DELANO-EARLIMART IRRIGATION
21 DISTRICT, and DOES 51 through 100, Inclusive,

22 Real Parties In Interest.
23

24

25 PETITIONERS ALLEGE AS FOLLOWS:

26

27 1. INTRODUCTION

28 Petitioners Los Alisos Ranch Company, LLC and McAland Ranch LLC (jointly referred to as "Petitioners") respectfully petition this Court for a Writ of Mandate directed to

-7•
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 Respondent South Valley Water Banking Authority (Respondent). Petitioners challenge

2 Respondent's approval of an Environmental Assessment/Initial Study-Mitigated Negative

3 Declaration (EA/IS-MND) for the Modified Pixley Groundwater Banking Project (Project).

4 2. Respondent's approval of the Project and the EA/IS-MND violated the

5 requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), Public Resources Code

6 section 21000 et seq. In the EA/IS-MND, Respondent improperly concluded that the Project

7 would not have a significant effect on the environment. Instead, substantial evidence supports a

8 fair argument that the project will have significant environmental impacts. Petitioners seek a
determination from this Court that Respondent's approval of the Project is invalid and void and

10 the EA/IS-MND fails to satisfy the requirements of CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines, Title 14

11 California Code of Regulations, section 15000 et seq. Respondent was required to prepare an

12 environmental impact report (EIR) to adequately analyze and mitigate the Project's significant

13 impacts, but failed to do so in violation of CEQA.

14 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

15 3. This Court has jurisdiction over the matters alleged in this Petition pursuant to

16 Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5 and Public Resources Code section 21168. In the

17 alternative, this Court has jurisdiction pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 and

18 Public Resources Code section 21168.5,

19 4. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 394(a), venue for this action properly

20 lies in this Court because Respondent, Real Parties in Interest, Petitioners, and the Project are

21 located in Tulare County.

22 THE PARTIES

23 5. At all times herein mentioned Petitioner LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY

24 LLC, was and is a California Limited Liability Company organized, existing and operating

25 pursuant to the law of the State of California and doing business in Tulare County,

26 6. At all times herein mentioned Petitioner McALAND RANCH LLC was and is a

27 California Limited Liability Company organized, existing and operating pursuant to the laws of

28 the State of California and doing business in Tulare County.

- 2-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 7. At all times herein mentioned, Respondent SOUTH VALLEY WATER

2 BANKING AUTHORITY was and is a Joint Powers Authority, organized, existing and

3 operating pursuant to the laws of the State of California including the Joint Powers Act and is

4 government agency, A true and correct copy of the Joint Powers Agreement is attached hereto as
EXHIBIT A and is incorporated herein by reference.

8. Real Parties In Interest, PIXLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT and DELANO -

EARLIMART IRRIGATION DISTRICT, are the public entities that formed and operate

8 Respondent the South Valley Water Banking Authority.

9 9. At all times herein mentioned, Real Party In Interest, PIXLEY IRRIGATION

10 DISTRICT, was an Irrigation District organized, existing and operating pursuant to Division 11

11 of the California Water Code and is a government agency.

12 10. At all times herein mentioned, Real Party In Interest, DELANO - EARLIMART

13 IRRIGATION DISTRICT, was an Irrigation District organized, existing and operating pursuant

14 to Division 11 of the California Water Code and is a government agency.

15 11. The true names and capacities of DOES through 100, inclusive, are unknown to

16 Petitioners. Petitioners will amend this Petition to set forth the true names and capacities of said

17 DOE Real Parties In Interest and/or Respondents as soon as the same have been ascertained.

18 Petitioners are informed and believe and thereon allege that each of said DOE parties, 1 through

19 100, inclusive, has jurisdiction by law over one or more aspects of the Project, and its approval

20 and/or execution, and/or that each of said DOE parties claims an ownership interest in the Project

21 which is the subject of this action, or an interest in its development or the actions of the

22 Respondent and/or Real Parties In Interest challenged herein.

23 STATEMENT OF FACTS

24 12. The Project is a water management facility in Tulare County. The Project would

25 include construction and operation of a 30,000 acre-feet per year dry-year return water bank

26 facility, with total groundwater storage availability of 90,000 acre-feet. The Project would

27 include approximately 1,012 acres of potential recharge basins, within which up to 800 acres of

28 recharge basins would be constructed, with a total of sixteen (16) recovery wells distributed

- 3-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 within the boundaries of the recharge basin areas, or alternatively within a 3,500 acre "in-lieu"

2 area, The Project would also include new turnouts, pipelines, pumps, wells, a regulating basin

3 and control structures to facilitate the transport of surface water delivered from new turnouts at

4 the Friant Kern Canal to the recharge basin to replenish groundwater or to directly serve land

5 owners within the defined "in-lieu" service area.

6 13. Respondent is the proponent of the proposed Project and Respondent is the lead

7 agency responsible under the CEQA for evaluating the environmental impacts of the Project,

8 14. On or about March 29, 2016, Respondent sent out a Public Notice - NOTICE OF
INTENT TO ADOPT A JOINT ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT/INITIAL STUDY-

10 MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION along with a draft Environmental Assessment/

11 Initial Study.

12 15. On or about April 17, 2017, Respondent sent out a second Public Notice -

13 INTENT TO ADOPT A JOINT NEPA ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (EA)/CEQA

14 INITIAL STUDY-MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION (IS-MND) FOR THE

15 PROPOSED MODIFIED PIXLEY GROUNDWATER BANKING PROJECT.

16 16. On or about April 17, 2017 Respondent caused an updated EA/IS-MND to be

17 prepared for the Project.

18 17. On or about December 7, 2017 Respondent sent out a third Public Notice - Notice

19 Of Public Hearing Modified Pixley Groundwater Banking Project.

20 18. On or about December 7, 2017 Respondent released a substantially revised redline

21 final EA/IS-MND for the Project.

22 19. On or about December 14, 2017, Respondent caused a Notice and Agenda for a

23 meeting of Respondent's Board of Directors on December 18, 2017, to be transmitted via e-mail

24 along with attachments including a Staff Report with four (4) exhibits.

25 20. On or about December 14, 2017 Petitioner made written comments to the

26 proposed redline EA/IS-MND of December 2017: Said comments were made as to the revised

27 plan contained in said EA/IS-MND and raised legal deficiencies as to same.

28 21. On December 15, 2017, Petitioners made written comments to Respondent via e-

- 4 -
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 mail regarding the substantial new information released with the agenda.

2 22. On or about December 18, 2017, Respondent's Board of Directors adopted

3 Resolution No. 2017-02, a resolution of the Board of Directors of the South Valley Water

4 Banking Authority, approving and adopting a Mitigated Negative Declaration and Mitigation

5 Monitoring and Reporting Program and approving the Modified Pixley Groundwater Banking

6 Project.

7 23. Petitioners submitted extensive written comments three (3) times on the EA/IS-

8 MND; on or about May 11, 2016 as to the initial plan, on or about May 11, 2017, as to the

9 revised draft EA/IS-MND, and/or about December 14, 2017 on the revised final EA/IS-MND,

10 raising the legal deficiencies asserted in this petition. Petitioners made their initial written

11 comments in a letter dated May 11, 2016 and raised legal deficiencies as to the initial EA/IS-

12 MND. Petitioners' second comment letter, dated May 11, 2017, sets forth the legal deficiencies

13 as to the second proposed EA/IS-MND.

14 24. On or about December 18, 2017 Respondent approved the EA/IS-MND and

15 Respondent determined to proceed with the construction, implementation and operation of the

16 Project.

17 25. On or about December 19, 2017 Respondent caused a Notice of Determination

18 regarding the approval of the Project to be filed.

19 26. Petitioners are informed and believe and thereon allege that other agencies,

20 interested groups and/or individuals also made oral and/or written comments on the legal

21 deficiencies as to the Project as set forth in the EA/IS-MND.

22 27. Construction/implementation/operation of the Project will irreparably harm the

23 environment and/or the EA/IS-MND fails to adequately address environmental issues, including

24 because the Project and/or the EA/IS-MND:

25 a. Will cause subsidence created by the depletion of the groundwater in a

26 segregated deep aquifer in the area inclusive of the Project and beyond.

27 The EA/IS-MND fails to consider the historical monitoring surveys by the

28 U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Friant-Kern Canal regarding subsidence

- 5-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 which confirm significant land subsidence [greater that six (6) feet] in the

D W N area of the Deer Creek siphon and bridge at Terra Bella Avenue, which is
cast of the Project;

b. Will cause perching of water in a shallow aquifer and damage lands and

5 growing crops in the area of the Project by reason of innundation of the

6 root systems by the perched water which will impact farming operations;

7 C. Will interfere with the groundwater supplies as to lands adjacent to the

8 Project;

9 d. Will interfere with farming operations adjacent to the Project;

10 e, Will interfere with the ability of adjacent landowners/possessors to pump

11 groundwater for farming operations;

12 f Will cause an imbalance in the aquifers in the Project area based upon a

13 lack of permeability as to the soil in the Project area;

14 g. Will damage existing water wells in the vicinity of the Project due to

15

16 h. drawing down the level of groundwater causing wells to collapse or fail;
Is predicated on incorrect information and/or analysis. The EA/IS-MND is

17 fundamentally flawed in that it mistakenly relies on the concept of one

18 aquifer when the evidence supports the existence of two aquifers. The

19 EA/IS-MND fails to reconcile the issue of two confined aquifers versus

20 one. The assumption regarding the impact on groundwater and pumping

21 from adjacent wells is flawed as recharging of water pumped from a

22 separate deep aquifer will not occur. Rather, the shallow aquifer will,

23 receive recharge water and the deep aquifer will be depleted causing

24 subsidence issues.

25 i It reaches unsupported conclusions as to well interference based on the one

26 aquifer theory. The EA/IS-MND should have but failed to require testing

27 of pumps to actually determine the transmissivity of each layer of

28 materials and a revised analysis based upon the results.

-6 -
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 j. Is predicated upon inadequate data. The EA/IS-MND is inadequate in that

2 it fails to provide detailed subsurface geologic cross-sections for the

3 Project vicinity, in particular clay layers that could be confining beds;

4 sampled well tests lacked depth as no testing was done below 500 feet.

5 Also, sampled wells tests lacked perforated intervals to address issues as

6 to water quality because of arsenic content and land subsidence was not

7 adequately evaluated. Instead, the analysis in the EA/IS-MND as to
•
8 geology and stratigraphic evaluation mistakenly relies in part on cross-

9 sections not relevant to the local subsurface geologic conditions beneath

10 the proposed Project area;

11 k. Does not adequately address the cumulative impacts of the Project; and

12 1. Fails to deal with growth-inducing impacts of the Project based on its

13 projection of increased water supply; and

14 m, Fails to adequately analyze and mitigate significant impacts to tribal

15 resources as required by CEQA.

16 EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

17 28. Petitioners have exhausted all administrative remedies as required by CEQA [Pub.

18 Res. Code § 21177] by submitting written comments on the Project and/or on the EA/IS-MND to

19 Respondent prior to the close of the hearing on the Project to request compliance with CEQA

20 including providing substantial evidence of a fair argument of significant impacts of the Project,

21 AIl issues raised in this petition were previously raised to Respondent by Petitioners, or others,

22 prior to approval of the Project. These determinations by Respondent are final and no further

23 administrative appeal procedures are provided for by state or local law.

24 29. Petitioners have requested Respondent prepare the record of proceedings in the

25 above-captioned proceeding pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.6(b).

26 30. This petition is timely filed in accordance with Public Resources Code section

27 21167 and CEQA Guidelines section 15112.

28 31. Respondent is threatening to proceed with the construction, implementation and

-7-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 operation of the Project in the near future.

2 32. Petitioners have performed all conditions precedent to filing this action by

3 complying with the requirements of Public Resources Code section 21167.5 in serving and filing

4 the Notice of Intent to File a California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") Petition on

5 January 11, 2018. Proof of service of this notice, with a copy of the notice, is attached hereto as

6 EXHIBIT B.

7 33. Petitioners do not have a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary

8 course of law because Petitioners and the public will be irreparably harmed by the ensuing

9 environmental damage and by the Respondent's violations of CEQA.

10 STANDING

11 34. Petitioner McALAND RANCH LLC, owns several hundred acres directly

12 impacted by the proposed Project including, but not limited to, having existing wells which

13 would be impacted by pumping, including well interference and/or draw-down. The Project

14 would impact water levels, water supplies, subsidence, and other related environmental matters

15 as set forth herein. Said acreage is under cultivation and growing crops of almonds and

16 pistachios.

17 35. Petitioner LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC, owns and conducts the

18 farming operations, including establishing and operating water wells on the property of Petitioner

19 McALAND RANCH LLC, and will be directly impacted by the proposed Project in the same

20 manner and to the same extent as Petitioner McALAND RANCH LLC.

21 36. Petitioners would be directly, adversely, and irreparably affected by the Project

22 until and unless this Court provides the relief requested in this petition, Petitioners' property is

23 directly impacted by the Project as a portion of it will be used for the Project and the balance of

24 the property is adjacent to, or in close proximity to, the Project.

25 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION

26 (VIOLATION OF CEQA; EA/IS-MND DOES NOT COMPLY WITH

27 CEQA AND AN EIR IS REQUIRED TO BE PREPARED)

28 37. Petitioners reallege and incorporate by reference paragraphs 1 through 36,

-8-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 inclusive, of this Petition, as if fully set forth below.

2 38. Respondent violated CEQA when it provided insufficient time for review of and

3 comment on the substantially revised final EA/IS-MND released on or about December 7, 2017.
[Public Resources Code § 21091(b) and 14 CCR § 15073.5(b).]

5 39. The timing of sending said NOTICE AND AGENDA was dilatory and intended to

6 allow minimal preparation time for any response to same.

7 40. A temporary restraining order and preliminary and permanent injunctions should

8 issue restraining Respondent and Real Parties In Interest from proceeding with the Project.

9 41. Respondent's actions in not preparing a full Environmental Impact Report

10 (hereinafter "EIR") and adopting a EA/IS-MND was improper and constitutes a prejudicial abuse

11 of discretion in that Respondent failed to proceed in the manner required by law and its decisions

12 are not supported by substantial evidence because the EA/IS-MND fails to adequately evaluate

13 and mitigate the Project's significant impacts, including as alleged herein above, and in

14 Petitioners' comment letters.

15 42. Respondent thereby violated its duties to prepare a full EIR, certify same and

16 adopt findings conforming to the requirements of CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines. A full EIR

17 must be prepared and submitted.

18 43. Respondent's action in adopting the EA/IS-MND constitutes a violation of CEQA

19 in that Respondent failed to proceed in the manner required by law and its decision not to prepare

20 an EIR is not supported by substantial evidence. Based on substantial evidence in the record, a

21 fair argument exists that the Project may have significant impacts on the environment,

22 44. Respondent violated its duty to prepare a legally adequate EIR as required by

23 CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines. Accordingly, Respondent's approval of the Project must be

24 vacated and set aside,

25 PRAYER FOR RELIEF

26 WHEREFORE, Petitioners pray as follows:

27 1. For a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction restraining

28 Respondent and Real Parties In Interest from taking any action to carry out the

-9-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

H Project pending trial;

2 2. For a peremptory writ of mandate directing:

3 a. Respondent to vacate and set aside approval of the EA/IS-MND on the

4 grounds it violates CEQA;

5 b. Respondent to prepare and submit a full EIR for the Project;

6 C. Respondent and Real Parties In Interest to suspend all activity pursuant to

7 the EA/IS-MND that could result in any change or alteration in the

8 physical environment until Respondent has taken actions that may be

9 necessary to bring the Project into compliance with CEQA;

10 d. Respondent to prepare circulate and consider a new and legally adequate

11 EIR and otherwise to comply with CEQA in any subsequent action taken

12 to approve the Project;

13 3. For their costs of suit;

14 4, For an award of attorney fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5;

15 5. For such other equitable or legal relief that the court considers just and proper.

16 DATED: January 1Q, 2018 LAW OFFICES OF STEVEN A. EHRLICH,

17

18

19 M LbA Attorney for Petitioners

20 LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC, and McALAND RANCH LLC

21

22 l

23

24

25

26 VERIFICATION

27 I am an officer of Petitioner LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC and am authorized

28 to execute this verification on behalf of said Petitioner. I have read the foregoing Petition and am
familiar with its contents. The facts recited in the Petition are true of my personal knowledge

-10-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 and/or I am informed and believe that the matters in it are true and that the documents attached

2 hereto are true and correct copies.

3 I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the

4 foregoing is true and correct.

5 Executed at Westminster, California on TNI,2018.

6

7 LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LDC

8 GduaH By:L BRADFORD SUBLETT
10 Dipector of Operations

11

12 VERIFICATION

13 am an officer of Petitioner McALAND RANCH LLC and am authorized to execute
14 this verification on behalf of said Petitioner. I have read the foregoing Petition and am familiar
15 with its contents. The facts recited in the Petition are true of my personal knowledge and/or I am
16 informed and believe that the matters in it are true and that the documents attached hereto are
17 true and correct copies.
18 I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
19 foregoing is true and correct.
20 Executed at Westminster, California on IA 7,2018.
21

22 McALAND RANCHI
23

24 MA
25 BRADFORD SUBLETT Director of Operations
26

27

28

-11-
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

EXHIBIT A

'ai 3

•

JOINT POWERS AGREEMENT
for the
SOUTH VALLEY WATER BANKING AUTHORITY
(established November 2le, 201%)
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this 2lg day of November, 2015, pursuant to the Joint Exercise of Powers Aot, by and between Pixley Irigation Distriat ("PIXID*), and Delano-Larlimart Irrigation Distriet ("DEID"), These public entities atc hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties" or "Member Entities." The terms. "Parties" and "Member Entities" shall also include any additional Parties that join in this Agreement, but. shall exclude any Parties that withdraw from this Agreement pursuant to any of the provisions hereto.

RECITALS

This Agreament is made with reference to the following facts:

A. PIXID and DEID are each inrigation districts, duly organized and existing under Division 11 of the California Water Code.

B. Each of the Member Entities distributes water to landowners within its respective service area, each of which is in need of additional storage capabilities in order to provide for-a more secure water supply for its landowners. and thereby desires to pursue participation in the Authority,
C. The Membei Entities believe that it is mutually beneficial for them to cooperate in their joint efforts to acquire, develop, operate, and maintain the Project, as defined hereln,
D. Each of the Parties is authorized to contract with each othet for the joint exercise of any common power under Article 1, Chapter 6, Division. T. Title 1 of the Government Cade of the State of California,
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES HERETO AS
FOLLOWS:

ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS

Section 1.1 Definitions: As used in this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise the meaning of the terms hereinafter set forth shall'be as follows!
(a) "Authority" shall mean the South Valley Water Banking Authority, being the separate public entity created by this Agitement.
(b)
Exhibit"A", "Banking Partners" shal, have the meaning set fonth iri Séction. 8.1 and

1

(©) "Brown Act" shall mean the Ralph M. Brown Act, California Government Code 54950, et seq., as may be amended from time to time.
(d) "Contribution" shall mean a contribution for which a call has been issued pursuant
to Section 4.6.

(e) "Board of Directors" or #Board" shall mean the governing body of the Authority as established in Section se of this Agreement,
(f) "Bonds" shall mean any bonds, loans, notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Authority (excluding warrants and checks), authorized and issued pursuant to the Joint Powers Act (as defined in Section 1.1(h), below).
(g) "Directon" shall mean any member of the Authority's Board of Directors and any alternate when serving as a member of the Authority's Board of Directors, including those divectors selected by each Member Entity pursuant to Section 8.2(a) and the At-Large Director selected by the Board pursuant to Section $.2(b).
(h) "Joint Powers Act"' shall mean the Joint Exercise of Powers Act, California Government Code § 6500, et seg, as may be amended from time to time.
(*) "Operating Rules and Regulations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(m).
6j) "Project" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

ARTICLE II

CREATION OF THE SOUTH VALLEY WATER BANKING AUTHORITY
Section 2,1 Creation: There is hereby created, pursuant to the Joint Powers Act, a public entity to be known as the "South Valley Water Banking Authority", referred to herein as the "Authority", which shall constitute the implementing agency designated to implement this Agreement.
Section 2.2 Term: This Agreement shall be effective from the date first above-written and remain in effect until terminated by mutual agreement of all Parties, or otherwise as described in this agreement The Authority shall continue in existence until dissolved or watil this Agreement is otherwise terminated and all property distributed pursuant to Section 6.6 or distributed otherwise pursuant to mutual agreement of all Parties, provided, however, that the Authority shall oontinue to exist and no termination will be effective until the following have been satisfactorily completed: disposition of all claims; payment of debt service with respect to Bonds which have been issued or which have been authorized for issuance, and satisfaction of other covenants of the Authority contained in the resolution and trust indenture relating to said Bonds; reimbursement owed to fiancial institutions which have secured such Bonds or other parties advancing funds to the Authority; and other covenants contained in reimbursement agreements with such financial institutions, and distribution of assets and all other funations necessary to conclude the affairs of the Authority have been satisfactorily completed.

2

Section 2.8 Purpose: The purpose of this Agreement is to provide for the joint exercise, through the Authority, of powers common to each of the Parties to study and participate in the acquisition, financing, construction, and operation of the Project,
Section 2.4 Powers: The Authority shall have and may exercise any powers within or outside the boundaries of the Authority as permitted by law from time to time. Such powers shall include, but not be limited to, the power in its own name to do any of the following
(a) To study, plan for, acquire, improve, construot, manage, operate, maintain, repair, lease, sell, exchange, replace, or transfer the Project,
(b) To make and enter contracts necessary to the full exercise of its powers.
(c) To contraot for the services of engineers, attorneys, planners, fimancial consultants, biologists, envirommental consultants, accountants, and other consultants, and
separate and apart from that, to employ such other persons as it deems necessary,
(d) To entex into agreements with the Member Entities, the United States of America, the State of California, or anÿ other public or private entity for any purpose Agreement. authorized by this

(e) To acquire, by eminent domain or other wise, and to hold and dispose of property necessary to the full exercise of its powers, and, subject to the limitations set forth herein, to dispose of property and any other assets.
(9) Subject to the limitation set forth herein, to incur debts, liabilities, or obligations; to issue bonds, notes, certificates of participation, guarantees, equipment leases, reimbursement obligations, and other indebtedness; to pledge, mortgage, assign, encumber, and hypothecate
assets and revenues of the Authority; to call for contributions from Member Entities; to impose and collect user fees and charges and to enter into leases, installment sales, and installment purohase contracts, all as hereinafter provided.
(g) To sue and be sued in its own narne.

(b) To apply for, accept, and receive licenses, permits, approvals, agreements, grants, loans, gifts, contributions, donations, or other aid from any agency of the United States of America, the State of California or other public or private person or entity necessary for the Authority's full exercise of its powers.
(i) To acquire, own, sell, transfer, and otherwise dispose of water which is or is to be banked in the Project.
(i) To take possession ofany water which is or is to be baniked in the Project, and to
enter into, perform, and enforce agreements for such purpose.
(k)
Agreement. To perform all acts necessary or proper to carry out fully the purposes of this

(1) To appoint agents;

8

(m) Tö adopt rules, regulations, policies, bylaws, and procedures governing the operation of the Authority ("Operating Rules and Regulations").
In accordance with Government Code § 6509, the foregoing powers shall be subjeat to the restrictions upon the manner of exercising such powers, pertaining to both PIXID and DEID as specified in the Irrigation District Law, California Water Code § 20500 et seq.
ARTICLE NI

INTERNAL ORGANIZATION

Section 8.1 Membership:
The Member Entities of the Authority shall be the entities which have executed or hereafter execute this Agreement, or amendment thereto, and which have not withdrawn from this Agreement pursuant to its provisions.
Section 8.2 Governing Body:
(a) The business of the Authority shall be conducted by a Board of Directors consisting of five Directors, constituted äs follows: two: directors appointed by each Member Entity plus one At-Large Director selected as provided in paragraph (b) below. Each Member Entity shall appoint its two Direotors from amongst its governing body. Each Member Entity also sball appoint from amongst its governing body at least one alternate director for each. Director representing such Member Entity, The Director and alternate directors, shall from time to time be seleoted from and designated in writing by the governing body of each of the Parties. The governing body of each Party shall also designate the order in which the alternates shall serve in the absence of the Director-i.e., the first alternate, the second alternate, etc. The role of an alternate director shall be to assume the duties of the Director appointed by his or her Member Entity, in case of the absence or unavaifability of such Director. The Directors and thé altermates so named shall serye at the pleasure of their appointing governing body and shall continue to serve until the respective successors are appointed.
(b) The At-Large Director shall be selected by unanimous vote of all the other Directors and shall be appointed to serve a four-year term. The At-Large Director may be removed at any time by a vote of at least three of the other Directors, in which case a successor At-Large Director shall again be selected by unanimous vote of all the other Directors.
(c) Each Director shall haye equal voting rights and powers.
Section 8.3 Meetings:
(a) The Board shall hold at least one regular meeting each year, and, by resolution, may provide for the holding of regular meetings at more frequent intervals. The date upon which, and the hour and place at which, each such regular meeting shall be held shall be fixed by resolution of the Board. Special meetings of the Board maÿ be called in accordance with the provisions of California Government Code § 54956, as may be amended from time to time. All meetings of the Board shall be called, held, noticed, and conducted subject to the provisions of the

Brown Act. Compensation and reimbursable expenses of the Directors shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Board.
(b) A quorum of the Board for the transaction of business shall consist of at least three members, except that less than quorum may adjourn from time to time. The concurring votes of at least three Directors present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present and eligible to vote on the matter shall be required for any action of the Board of Directors, except that the following actions shall require an affirmative vote of at least four of the Direstors:
(1) incur any indebtedness (other than debts incurred in the ordinary course of business) or make a discretionary distribution of any income, except. for distributions upon termination of this Agreement or dissolution of the Authority;
(2) sell, exchange, or transfer any real or personal property exceeding $100,000.00 in value;

(8) modify o1 amend the Project referenced in Section 5.1 and described at Exhibit A hereto,
(4) adopt, amend, or repeal bylaws and Operating Rules and Regulations;
(6) as a debtor, file a petition for relief or voluntarily seek the benefit of any bankruptey law; seek the appointment of a trustec, receiver, or liquidator for all or substantially all the Authority's assets; or make a general assignment for the benefit of creditore;
(6) initiate litigation or other judicial arbitration or administrätive actions where the amount claimed exceeds $50,000.00; settle or compromise any claimn by the Authority where the amount claimed exceeds $50,000.00; or settle or compromise any claim against the Authority where the settlement or compromise exceeds $60,000.00, unlese a different number of affirmative votes is otherwise required by law;
(7) call for a contribution as provided at Section 4.5, and,
(8) adopt a budget.
(c) The Board shall select from among the Directors a chair who shall be the presiding officer at all Board meetings and a vice chair who shall serve in the absence of the chair. The terms of office of the chaür and the vice chair shall he set by the Board, provided, however, that the office shall be declared vacant if the person serving dies, resigns, or is remoyed by his or her Member Entity as its representative on the Authority, or if his or her Member Entity withdraws from this Agreement pursuant to any of the provisions hereof The Board shall also appoint a secretary, who shall be responsible for keeping and providing to all Member Entities a copy of the minutes of all meetings of the Board and all other official records of the Authority, and the Board may also appoint or employ such other officers and employees as it deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this Agreement, including, but not limited to, a Treasurer as provided in Section 4.2(c) below. Such offices may be held by separate officers or employees or may be combined and held by one such officer or employee, as provided by the Board of Directors, Each officer shal) hold office for a period of one year, and the Board shall deteriine the

5

appointment of officers in January of each year. Any officel, employee, or agent of the Board may also be an officer, employee, or agent of any of the Parties. The appointments by the Board of such person shall be evidence that the two positioris are compatible,
(d) The Board may from time to time adopt an official seal for the Authority and may adopt such. Operating Rules and Regulations as it deems necessary to regulate the affairs of the Authority in accordance with this Agreement. The Operating Rules and Regulations may be amended from time to time by the Board as it may deem nedessary.
(e) The Board may, as it deemp appropriate, appoint committeés to accomplish the purpoges set forth herein. Any meeting of such a committee shall be deemed to be a meeting of the Authority for compensation purposes only and all such meetings shall be open to all Directors. All meetings of committees shall be called, held, noticed, and conducted subject to the provisions of the Brown Act, to the extent applicable.
Section 8,4 Principal Office: The principal office of the Authority shall be: 857 E. Olive Avenue, Tipton, CA 98272, The Board may change the principal office from one location to another that is in Tulare County and is within the boundaries of any of the Member Entities, which shall not constitute an amendment of this Agreement.
Section 3.6 Liability of Board and Officers: The funds of the Authority may be. used, to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the Authority and/or any Director, alternate director, officer, or employee. for actions taken within the scope of the authority of the. Authority, Nothing herein shall limit the right of the Authority to purchase insurance to provide such coverage as is hereinabove set forth,
Section 3.6 Status of Officers and Employees: All of the privileges and immunities from liabllity; exemptions from Jaws, ordimances, and rules; all pension, relief, disability, worker's compensation, and other benefits which apply to officers, agents, or employees of any of the Parties when performing functions for their respective Parties shall apply to such persons to. the same degree and extent while they are engaged in the performance of any of the functions and duties under this Agreement. None of the officers, agenta, or employees appointed by the Authority shall be deemed, by reason of their employment by the Authority, to be employed by any of the Parties or, by reason of their employment by the Authority, to be subject to any of the requirements of such Parties.

ARTICLE IV

FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Section 4.1 Fiscal Year The fiscal year of the Authority shall be established by resolution of the Board of Directors as soon as prastiual after the effective date of this Agreement.
Section 4.2 Depositary:
(a) The Board shall designate the Treasurer of the Authority, who shall be the depositary and have custody of all money of the Authority, from whatever source, subject to the applicable provisions of any indenture or resolution providing for a trustee or other fiscal agent. All funds of the Authority shall be held in separate accounts in the hame of the Authority and not commingled with funds of any Member Entity or any other person or entity.

6

(b) The Treaswrer shall perform the duties of the Treasurer and of the Auditor as specified in California Government Code $$ 6505 and 6605.5.
(c) The Board may transfer the responsibilities of Treasurer to anÿ person or entity as the Joint Powers Aot may provide from time to time.
(d) All funds of the Anthority shall be strictly, and separately, accounted for and regular reports shall be rendered of all receipts and disbursements at least quarterly during the fiscal year. The books and records of the Authority shall be open to inspection by the Member Entities at all reasonable times, and by bondholders and lenders as and to the extent provided by resolution or indenture. The Treasurer shall contract with a certified publie accountant or public accountant to make an annual audit of the accounts and records of the Authority, which shall be conducted, at a minimum, in accordance with the requirements of the State Controller under Calilornia Government Code 26909, and shall conform to those standards published by the Government Accounting Standards Burean, they pertain to special districts.
(e) All expenditures within the designations and limitations of the applicable approved budget shall' be made upon the approval of any officer so authorized by the Board in accordance with the Operating Rules and Regulations, The Treasurer shall draw checks or warrants or make payments by other means for claims or disbursemente not within an applicable budget only upon the approval and written order of the Board. The Board shäll requisition. thé payment of funds only upon approval of claims or disbursements and requisition for payment in accordance with rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and bylaws adopted by the Board
Seotion 43 Fidelity Bonds: The Board shall from time to time designate the officers and persons, in addition to those specified in Section 42 above, who shall have charge of, handle, or have access to, any propertty of the Authority. Each such officer or person, including those specified in Section 4.2, shell file a fidelity bond in an amount designated by the Board. Such designations shall be subject to ratification by the Parties, in compliance with Government Code § 6506.1. Should the existing fidelity bond or bonds of any such officer or person be extended to cover the obligations provided herein, said bond shall be the official bond required herein, The premiums on any such fidelity bonds attributable to the coverage gequired herein shall be appropriate expenses of the Authority, In lieu of a fidelity bond, the Authority may, in accordance with the law, purchase insurance providing substantially the same coverage as a fidelity bond.
Section 4,4 Annual Budgets:
(a) Aa soon as praotical after the execution of this Agreement; and thereafter at least thirty (8o) daÿs prior to thie commencement of each fiscal year, the Board shall adopt for the ensuing fiscal year appropriate budgets, which may be more specifically identifled and the method of apportionment described in the Operating Rules and Regulations, including budgets for administration, fixed operation and maintenance costs, variable operation and maintenance costs, and capital improvement costa, including debt service for such improvements, and so long as applicable for start-up costs.
(b) It is the intended policy of the Member Entitles that the annual operations and maintenance oosts of the Authority associated with Project be paid by Banking Partners as
described in Article V and Exhibit A. V

7

Section 4.5 Contributions. Contributions from the treasuries of the Member Entities shall be made to the Authority for the purposes, and on the terms, set forth in this Agreement, and in any amendments hereto. Payments of publio funde may be made to defray the costs incurred in carrying out such purposes, and adyances of funds may be made for such purposes, to be repaid as provided in this Agreement, or In amendmenta hereto. Personnel, equipment, or property of one or more of the parties to this Agreement may be used in lieu of other contributions or advances, upon approval of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may from time to timé as it deems necessary and appropriate, and subject to Section 8.9(b)(7) of this Agreement, make a call for contributions from the Member Entities, which contributions shall be for all costs within the adopted budgets not paid for by Banking Pertner fees or other Project income. It ds the intent of the Parties that all project costs be paid through income fiom the Project, including but not limited to Banking Partner share sales, subserîption fees, and maintenance fees, and that contributions from Member Entittes be utilized only to the extent the Board may deem such contributions necessary due to the temporary insufficiency of such Project income to cover Project costs, or the extent that other Authority projects that are identified and approved by the Member Entities, acting through the Board, require such contributions.
Section 4.6 Repayment or Return of Contributions; Disposition of Revenues: In accordance with Government Code § 6619.1, repayment or return to the Parties of all or any part of any contributions made by the Parties and any revenues received by the Authority may be directed by the Board at ouch time, and upon such terms, as the Board may decide. The Authority shall hold title to all funds, property, and works acquired by it during the term of this Agreement.
Section 4.7 Reimbursement of Member Entities,

(a) The Authority shall reimburse to each Member Entity, on a monthly basis or such less frequent basis as the Authority and the Member Entity may agree upon, all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the Member Entity or on its behalf, for services rendered or labor or materials supplied to the Authority, pursuant to a written request or agreement. Reimbursable items may include, but are not limited to, expenses incidental to the oporation and management of the Project, fees and charges for legal and accounting services, indluding those rendered in connection with the formation. of the Authority, reasonably allocable salary and benefits of a Member Entity's employee for time spent in rendering services specifically for or on behalf of the Authority (excluding time spent acting in the capacity of a Director of the Äuthority), and such other iteme ae are necessary and appropriate to the conduct of the Authority's affairs and properly allocable to the Authority.
(b) The Authority shall have the right to inspect and audit those books and records of any Member Entity which pertain to amounts for which the Member Entity seeks reimbursement under subsection (a) above. Such inspection and audit may be requested at any time within one year after relmbursement is requested or paid. The Member Entity shall make such booke and reçords available for inspection within ten business days after receiving the Authority's written request to inspect or audit.

8

ARTICLE V

THE PROJECT

Section 5.1 Description of the Projeotr The Project which the Authority intends to implement is the financing, construction, operation, and maintenance of a groundwater banking project as more specifically described in Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, It is intended that the Authority act as the party responsible for planning, construction, operation, and maintenance of the Project as described in Exhibit A, but unless otherwise agreed by the Member Entities the Authority is not intended to use the banking program for its own water storage purpose. Instead, unless specifically approved by the Board or agreed by the Member Entities pursuant to separate agreement, the Authority intends to provide water banking services to third party entities who purchase the right to use the storage created by the Project, described in Exhibit A as "Banking Partners". The Banking Partners will pay subscription fees and maintenance and operation fees to the Authority in exchange for use of the groundwater bank för seasonal storage of water. The Member Entities shall have an opportunity, but not right or obligation, to partioipate in the Project as Bankdng Partners. A Member Entity shall have no right by virtue of being a Member Entity to use the services of the Project unless the Member Entity elects to become a Banking Partner by paying the required fees and costs, Of otherwise by agreement of the Authority, It is the intent of the Member Entities that financing of the Project be accomplished through collection of advance subscription feës from Banking Partners, grant funds, or other such funds as may be identified, and not by contributions from the Authority's Member Entities.
Section 5,2 Development of Project Its understood and agreed that the aforementioned description. of the Project represents the present intention and agreement of the Parties, but that the exact details of the Project will be developed as it progresses.
Section 5.9 Participation in Other Projects: The Authority may participate in Ör develop other projects unrelated to the Project only pursuant to a written amendment to this Agreement exeouted by all Member Entities.
Section 6.4 Allocation of Interests in the Project: The Member Entities shall each have an equal (60%) interest in the Project including its profits and losses. Such proportions shall be adjusted by agreement upon the addition of any new Member Entity pursuant to Section 6.8 of this Agreement.
Section 6.6 Ownership of Water Consistent with the terms and conditions of agreements that the Authority anticipates entering inta with Banking Partners as part of the Project, the Authority does not intend, unless otherwise specifically agreed by the Member Entities, to provide or sell water to Banking Partners to be banked in the Project or to take title. to water that Banking Partners deliver to the Project. Member Entities hereby agree that they do not have any expectation of gaining any watar or water rights as a result of creating the Authority or participating through the Authority in the Project, unless doing so is a term or condition of separate transaction,. Water left in the underground aquifer as "percentage" or "leave behind" water as described in the Project shall be considered accrued to the underground aquifer and dedicated to the benelit of the local lands, and not to be under the ownership or control of the Authority, the Member Entities, or the contributing Banking Partner,

9

ARTICLE VI

RELATIONSHIP OF THE AUTHORITY AND ITS MEMBER ENTITIES

Section 6.1 Separate Entity: The Authority shall be a public entity separate from the Member Entities. All property, equipment, supplies, funds, and records of the Authority shall be owned by the Authority, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. The Parties to this Agreement do not intend hereby to be, and shall not be, obligated either jointly or severally for the debts, liabilities, or obligations of the Authority, except as may be specifically provided for in California Government Code $ 896.2 as amended or supplemented. Provided, however, if the Member Entities of the Authority are, under such applicable law, held liable for the acts or omissions of the Authority caused by negligent or wrongful acts or omissions ocsurring in the performance of this Agreement, such Parties shall be entitled to contribution from each of the other Parties SO that after said contribution each Party shall bear a portion of such liability in proportion to its interest as established by Section 6.4 as may be amended from time to time.
Section 6.2 Indemnification: Each Mamber Entity shall indemnify, defend, protect, and hold harmless the Authority and the other Member Entities, and their respective direotors, officers, agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors, and volunteers, and each of them, from and against any and all claims, causes of action, debts, demands, obligations, liabilittes, losses, costs, and expenses (collectively a "Claim"), and shall assume responsibility for payment of any settlements, judgments, costs, and attorneys' fees arising out of or resulting from the following:
(a) The negligent aots or omissions of the indemnifying Member Entity or its diréetors, officers, agents, or employees; provided that this indemnity excludes acts or omissions of such persons in his or her capacity of an officer or employee of the Authority;
(b) Control, carriage, handling, use, disposal, or distribution of water conveyed or stored iü facilities of the indemnifying Member Entity, to the extent the Claim relates to use of such facilittes to implement this Agreement.
(c) The legality or appropriateness of the Member Entity entering into or performing this Agreement; provided that this indemnity excludes any Claim against. the Authority challenging the authority for or the validity or enforceability of the Project under this Agreement;
(d) Construction, operation, repair, modification, or replacement of any of the faoilities of the indemnifying Member Entity; and
(e) Any other activities under the exclusive control of the indemnifying Member Entity and related to the Agreement, the Authority, or the Projeot.
Section 6.8 Additional Partiesi Additional Parties may join in this Agreement and become additional Member Entities only if accepted and approved by all Member Entities, and if the additional Member Entity is a public agency, as defined in Government Code 5 6500, or a mutual water company as defined in Public Utilities Code § 2725, having powers related to the Project common to all other Member Entities. The terms and conditions of such joinder shall be set forth in an amendment to this Agreement, signed by ali of the then-existing and the joining Parties, and shail be consistent with any contracts, resolations, indentures, or other obligations of the Authority then in effect.

10

Section 6.4 Termination:

(a) This Agreement may be terminated by the express written agreement of all Member Entities then existing.
(b) This Agreement may terminate as described in Section 6.5(b), below.
(c) If this Agreement is terminated as provided in this Section 6.4, the Authority sball be dissolved, subject to the limitations in Section 2.9, above.
(d) Upon termination of this Agreement, any property owned by the Authority shall be disposed of pursuant to Section 6.5(b), if applicable, oy else pursuant to Section 6.6, below, or otherwise by mutual agreement of all then-existing Parties.

Section 6.6 Withdrawal:

(a) It is fully anticipated that each Party hereto shall participate in the Autlority until the purposes set forth in Section 2.3 above are accomplished. The withdrawal of any Party, either voluntarily or involuntarily, pursuant to this Agreement or the Operating Rules and Regulations, unless otherwise approved by all óf the Member Entities, shall be conditioned as follows: (i) in the case of a voluntary withdrawal, written notice shall be given at least 90 days prior to the intended date of withdrawal, (i) said withdrawal shall not relieve the Party of its proportionate share of any debts or other liabilities inturred by the Authority in the ordinary course af business prior to the effective date of the Party's withdrawal, nor of any liabilities imposed upon or incurred by the Party pursuant to this Agreement prior to the effective date of the Party's withdrawal; (ii) said withdrawal shall result in the forfetture of that Party's rights and claims relating to Project assets, inoluding accumulated income, and the withdrawing party's interest in such assets shall be redistributed to the remaining Member Entities in proportion to their then existing interests.
(b) In the event that a withdrawal of a Member Entity would result in there being only one remaining Member Entity, the Agreement shall be deemed terminated and the remaining Member Entity shall, at its sole option, elect to either M0) assume individually all property, works, rights, inferests, obligations, and assets of the Authority oonsistent with the forfeiture of the withdrawing Party of its assets, rights, and claimns in aocordance with Section 6.5(a)i) above ox (ii) clect for the provisions of Seation 6.6, regarding distribation of property upon termination, to apply, in which case the forfciture provisions of Section 6.5(a)(tHi) shall not apply, The remaining Member Entity shall provide notice of election under this Section 6.5(b) prior to the expiration of the 90 day notice as provided in Section 6.5(a)(i).
Section 6.6 Disposition of Property Upon Termination;
(a) Upon termination of this Agreement, provided that the election in Seotion 6.5(b)(i) has not been made, and subject to the limitations in Section 2.&, mny money on hand shall be used first to pay or provide reasonable reserves for the payment of all fixed and contingent debts, obligations, and liabilities of the Authority and any balance remaining sball be returned to the then Member Entities of the Authority in proportion to their then existing interests in the Project as established by Section 5.4. The Board shall fivst offer any other property, works, rights, interests, and assets of the Authority for sale to the Member Entities, and ifno such sale is

11

consummated, then the Board shall offer the property, works, rights, interests, and assets of the Authority for sale to any governmental agency, private entity, or persons for good and adequate consideration, The net proceeds from any sale shall be used first to pay or provide reasonable reserves for the payment of all fixed and contingent debts, obligations, and liabilities of the Authority, and second, distributed among the Member Entities in proportion to their respective interests in the Project.
(b) If no such sale is consummated, then all property, works, rights, interests, assets, obligations, and liabilities of the Authority shall be allocated to the Member Entities in the same manner as a sale, unless otherwise agreed to by all of the Member Entities.

ARTICLE VII

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sectión 7.1 Amendment of this Agreement: This Agreement may be amended only by a written agreement approved and executed by all Parties, subjeet to any conditions or restrictions established by resolution or indenture authorizing the issuance of Bonds. Approval of the Board of Directors shall not be required for the amendment of this Agreement.
Section 7.2 Astignment; Binding on Successors: Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement,; the rights and duttes of the Parties to this Agreement may not be assigned or delegated without the advance wwitten consent of all of the other Parties, and any attempt to assign or delegate such rights or dutes in contravention of this Section shall be null and; void. This Agieement shall inure to the benefit of. and be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Parties hereto. This Section does not prohibit a Member Entity from eatering into an independent agreement with another ageney, person, or entity regarding the fiancing of that Member Entity's contributions to the Authority, or the disposition of proceeds which that Member Entity receives under this Agreement, so long as such iudependent agreement does not affect, or purport to affect, the rights and duties of the Authority or the Parties under this Agreement.
Section 7.8 Notices: Any notice authorized or required to be given pursuant to. this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given when mailed, postage prepaid, or delivered during working hours to the following addresses, or to guch changed addresses as are communicated to the Authority and Member Entities in writing:
Pixley Trrigation District $57 E. Olive Delano-Earlimart Irrigation District '14181 Avenue 24
Tipton, CA 98272 Delano, CA. 98215

Section 7.4 Withdrawal by Operation of Law Should the participation of any Party to this Agreement be decided by the courts or the legislature to be illegal or in excess of that Party's authority or in conflict with any law, the Parttes shall cooperate in good faith to attempt: to reorganize and/or formulate another entity in which all the Member Entities may participate and carry out the Project in a manner similar to that herein provided for; provided, however, if such effort is unsuccessful and/or pending such reorganization, the validity of the Agreement as to the remaining Parties shall not be affected thereby.

12

Section 7.6 Multiple Originals: This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original.
Section 7.6 Choice of Law This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.

Section 7.7 Severability, If one or more clauses, sentences, paragraphs, or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be unlawful, invalid, or unenforceable, it is hereby agreed by the Parties that the remainder of the Agreement shall not be affeoted thereby, Such clauses, sentencas, paragiaphs, or provisione shall be dèemed reformed so äs ta be lawful, valid, and enforce to the maximum extent possible.
IN WITNESS WHERFOE, the Parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year fust written above.

PIXLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT DELANO-EARLIMART IRRIGATION
DISTRICT

By Heeiah Its: President 4/20/13 Dated wo erfo her Its: Dated

By. Tts: 1/24//3 Dated By; Le Its; Secretary Dated

13

EXHIBIT A

Pixley Groundwater Bank
MASTER PROTECT DESCRIPTION

Overview
The South Yalley Water Banking Authority ls offering thares of long-term water banking services through the development of a groundwater banking program in Southern Tulare Courity, the Pixley Groundwater Bank ("Bank" or
"Project')

Project Owners/Developers
Pixley Iragation District Pixley iD fs an agricultural irrigation district which cavers approxmately 70,000 acres In southern Tulare County, California, Deer Creek, a loccl ephemeral strecm, flows from east to west through the district. The District enjoÿs #Xcellent groundwater quality. Depths to static groundwater within Pixley ID average appraximately 300 feet. Thus,
there is signlficant groundwater storage potential within the Districi.

Delano-Earlimari Irrigation District Delano-Earlimart ID is an agricultural trrigation district which borders Pixley ID to the immedlate south In southem Tulare County and northem Kemn County, Delanc-Earllmart ID has a Friant Division CVP water contract that Includes the largest Class One water supply entitlement in the Friant Division. Delano-Earlimart ID encompasses approximately
56;500 acres.

South Valley Water Bunking Authority The South Valley Water Banking Authority is a Jolnt Powers Authority formed pursuant to the Callfornia Joint Powers Authority Law by Pixley ID and Delano-Earlimant: ID for the purpose developing; owning, operafing, managing, and maintaining the Pixley Groundwater Bank,

Project Description
The Bank ts a 30,000 acre-feet per year dry year return water bank. The Bank's primary facilities will be located in Pixley ID, north of Deer Creek, narthwest of the Avenue 80 (alignment) and Road 160 intersection. it ts strateglcally located to be able to accept and return water from/to the Friant-Kern Canal. Itis accessible from major eastside streams including the San Jouguin, Kings, Kaweah, and Tole rivers. It is upstream of major potential exchange entitles -including the lurgest entitlement holders of Class 1 waler in the Friont Divislon as well as the Kern County Water Agency, the second largest entitlement holder in the State Water Prolec. Frlant Division long-term contractors cire the preferred Banking Partners and will be provided the first opportunity to particpate in the Bank (priority status will be provided unil January 1,2014},

Pixley Groundwater Bank Facilities
The total groundwater storage currently available from the Project is 90,000 acre-fest. The Project Includes 560 acres of dedicated recharge basins with a well fleld of eleven (11) tecovery wells locafed within the boundarles of this facllity. The basins are estimated to have a recharge capacty of approximately 45,000 acre-feet per year (4,000 acre-fest per month) and a recovery capacity of 25,400 acre-feet over an 8 month periad. The Project also includes 2,200 acres of in-lieu banking arec with five (5) groundwater recovery wells within the In-lieu service ored. The In-lleu service area has a recharge capacily of approximately 6,500 acre-feet per year following a normal irrigation demand. The four wells have a recovery capadty of 8,500 AF over an 8-month perjod. À 4,5 mlle, 48-Inch dtamefer concrete pipeline Will support recovery from the Bank and will convey water from bath the

Exhibit A - Project Description

well fleld at the recharge basins and the In-lieu service area back to the Fricnt-Kern Canal. The 48-inch plpeline will also provide grovity dellvety of supplies from the Friant-Kern Canal to growers In the In-lieu service: area for irrigation and to the recharge basins for direct recharge. Deer Creek can also be used for delivery of water to the basins and for récharge. The Project will recover banked groundwater suppiles with delivery of those supplles to the Friant-Kem Canal to meet demands of CVP contractars and/or Kern County Interests that con recelve water from the Frlant-Kem or Cross Valley carals,

Banking Operations and Rate Structure.
Banking Portners will provide water for racharge in the Bank and pay all cost of acquisition and delivery of water to the Bank, Effective delivery of water is canal-side hn the Frlant-Kern Canal at the new turnout location near the Road 80 crossing or at the Deer Creek turnout wheh avallable.
Firm Banking Shares
The Banking Program has 30,000 shares that will provide firm dry year return of water. Each share entitles thé Banking Partner toi
* One(1] acre-foot per year of scheduled recharge capaclty
* One (1) asre foot per year of scheduled recovery copachty
• Three (3) acre-feet of storage capaoity in the Bank
The delivery point of water returned to Banking Partners can be elther Millerton Lake or of the Banks Friant-Kern Canal tumout.

Losses Water left behind for loss purposes and for the benetit of the groundwater basin la ten (10) percent of the water placed into the Bank.
Capital Payments The sost to purchase shares in the Bank will be due: prior to construction, Shares are currently offered at $1,750 per share 500 shares is the minimum amount to be sold and 10,000 shares is the maximum amount to be sold to any one Bankiag Purtner. A non-refundable deposli of $100 per share will be required inmediately to hold position and terms ais a Bunking Parinen. This deposit will be applied against the share cost.
RWA Account Offset
15,000 shares in the Bank were partially developed whh federal funding provided to assist in offsetting San Joaquin River Restoration impacts to long-term. Friant Division CVP contractors. Delano-Earlimart ID has already purchased 10,000 of these shares. The Bank is offering the first right of refusal to, Friant Division long-term contractors for the purchase of the balance of the $,000 shares. Friant long-term contractars exercisling this first right of refusal by Oalober 1. 2013, will recalve a proportionate cimount of the 5,000 shares based upon thelr total requested share subscrlption. Pariidpants In RWA Offset will be required to extinguish orie (1) RYVA credit for each acre-foot of water dellvered ta the Bonk. Use of Settlement Article 16(b) watet lotten refetred to as"$1O Water") for the Bank will not require the extinguishment of an additional RWA credit when using the Bank. Friant long-term contractors wililing to commit RWÄ credits with water to be stored in the Bonk will receive an initial buy-In credit for Firm Shares In the Bank in the amount of $250 per share. The credit can be applied to the Capital Payment or held in trust and applied to Annual Management Fees,

Annual Management Fee
The fee for the first three years following completion of the Bank has been set at $21 per share per year and Includes:
Administration
Water quallty monitoring
Annual reporting to Banking Partners
• Half of estimated long-term rehabilitation and replacement funding of Bank facilities

Exhibit A - Project Description

*

Regolar maintenance of Bank facilliles
This fee will be subject to adjustment, on an annual basis after the first three years.
Usage Fees
The Initial fee or its estimate are as followsi
Recharge Fee - There is - no fee charged when water is deposited In the Bank. This is a unique feature of the Pixley Groundwater Bank as comppred to other regional groundwater banks.
Recovery Fee -.$30 per dere-foot recovered from the Boink to cover costs of recovery operations and approxinately half of the estimated long-term rehabilitation and replacement funding; Recovery Energy Fee - Currently estimated at $105 per acre-foot recovered from the Bank. The Recovered Energy Fee will be pass-through energy costs only,

Development Schedule

Subscription of Project October 2013 - June 2014
Shäres
Develop Pians/CEQA & NEPA August 2013 • October 2014

Property Acqusliion June 201 4 - January 2015
Facllity Construction June 2015 - October 2017 Project Operational for Navember 2016
Recharge
Project Operational for November 2017
Recovery

Exhibit A - Project Description

EXHIBIT B

1 Steven A. Ehrlich, Esq. (SBN #070742)
LAW OFFICES OF STEVEN A. EHRLICH
2 2601 Main Street, Suite 1200
Irvine, CA 92614
3 Tel: (949) 476-7095 Fax: (949) 474-0437

4 Attorney for Petitioners LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC and McALAND RANCH LLC

5

6

7

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 COUNTY OF TULARE

10

11 LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, and
12 McALAND RANCH LLC, a California Limited
Liability Company,
13 NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE A
Petitioners CEQA PETITION
14
VS.
15
SOUTH VALLEY WATER BANKING
16 AUTHORITY, a Joint Exercise Of Powers Act

17 Authority, and DOES through 50, Inclusive,
Respondent
18
and
19
PIXLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT and
20 DELANO-EARLIMART IRRIGATION DISTRICT, and DOES 51 through 100,
21 Inclusive,

22 Real Parties In Interest.

23

24
TO SOUTH VALLEY WATER BANKING AUTHORITY:
25
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE under Public Resources Code section 21167.5 that Petitioners
26
LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC and McALAND RANCH LLC intend to file a petition
27
under the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act against Respondent SOUTH
28

-1-
NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION

1 VALLEY WATER BANKING AUTHORITY challenging its adoption of an updated Joint

2 Environmental Assessment/Initial Study - Mitigated Negative Declaration and approval for the

3 construction and operation of a Modified Pixley Groundwater Banking Project southeast of the

4 community of Pixley in Tulare County.
The petition will seek the following relief: To require that Respondent prepare full

6 Environmental Impact Report with respect to the project. Additionally, the petition will seek

7 Petitioners' costs and attorneys' fees associated with this action, and will seek an injunction

8 prohibiting implementation of the Project. A copy of the petition to be filed by Petitioners is

9 attached to this Notice and incorporated herein by reference.

10

11

12 DATED: January JQ, 2018 LAW OFFICES OF STEVEN A. EHRLICH

13

14 ole By: Steven A. Ehrlich
15 Attorney for Petitioners LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC,
16 and McALAND RANCH LLC

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

- 2-
NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION

1 PROOF OF SERVICE

2
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF ORANGE
3
Iam employed in the County of Orange, State of California. I am over the age of 18 and
4 not a party to the within action. My business address is 2601 Main Street, Suite 1200, Irvine, CA 92614.
5
On January IL, 2018 I served the foregoing document described as:
6
NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE A CEQA PETITION
7
on the interested parties in this action by placing a true copy thereof enclosed in a sealed
8 envelope addressed as follows (except as to facsimile transmissions):

9 PLEASE SEE ATTACHED SERVICE LIST

10 X BY MAIL:
deposited such envelope in the mail at Irvine, California. The envelope was
11 mailed with postage thereon fully prepaid.

12 I am "readily familiar" with the firm's practice of collection and processing

13 correspondence for mailing. Under that practice it would be deposited with U.S. postal service on that same day with postage thereon fully prepaid at Irvine, California in the ordinary course of business. I am aware that on motion of the 14 party served, service is presumed invalid if postal cancellation date or postage meter date is more than one day after date of deposit for mailing in affidavit.
15
BY FEDERAL EXPRESS:
16 By using express mail service and causing to be delivered overnight next day delivery a true copy thereof to the person(s) at the address set forth above.
17
BY FACSIMILE:
18 By transmitting before 5:00 p.m., the document(s) listed above to the fax numbers of the parties as set forth above.
19

20 Executed on January 11_, 2018 at Irvine, California.

21 (FEDERAL) I declare that I am employed in the office of a member of the bar of this court at 22 whose direction the service was made.

23 X (STATE) declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the 24 above is true and correct.

25

26 LutaE dulel KATHRYN E. EHRLICH
27

28

- 1 -

SERVICE LIST

LOS ALISOS RANCH COMPANY LLC, et al. v. SOUTH VALLEY WATER BANKING AUTHORITY, et al.

SOUTH VALLEY WATER 661-725-2526 BANKING AUTHORITY
Dale Brogan, Project Manager 357 E. Olive Avenue
Tipton, CA 93272

PIXLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT Dan Vink, General Manager 661-686-4716

357 E. Olive Avenue
Tipton, CA 93272

DELANO-EARLIMART 661-725-2526 IRRIGATION DISTRICT
Dale Brogan, General Manager 14181 Avenue 24
Delano, CA 93215

DECEIVEN MAR 2- i 2018
BY:___________

S3730NV S07 7V83N39 A3N8O1IV usmeplao usipouor
ZZ :OINV S-8330100 $373ONY SoT

DNIAI3338 DNI13X000 B STENALIN 915 94%r300m30/02 81 MRA BMOg