.
ELECTRONICALLY FILED
Superior Court of California
1 Neal P. Maguire (SBN 234531) County of Santa Barbara

2 Joshua S. Hopstone (SBN 273719) PERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP Darrel E. Parker, Executive Officer
6/19/2018 3:26 PM

3 1050 South Kimball Road
Ventura, California 93004 By: Terri Chavez, Deputy

4 Telephone: (805) 659-6800
Fax Number: (805) 659-6818
5 E-mail: nmaguire@fcoplaw.com
jhopstone@fcoplaw.com
6

7 Attorneys for Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC

8

9 SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
10 FOR THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA
11

12 BUENA VISTA 796, LLC, a California limited Case No.
13 liability company, Filed: 18CV03088

14 Petitioner, VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDATE
15 V,

16 COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, a political [California Environmental Quality Act,
subdivision of the State of California, acting by Cal. Pub. Resources Code, § 21000 et seq.]
17 and through its BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, [Filed concurrently with Petitioner's
18 Request for Hearing; Notice of Election to
Respondents, Prepare Record of Administrative
19 Proceedings]
20 ERRETT VAN NICE. AS TRUSTEE OF THE |LIGHTHOUSE TRUST U/T/A DATED AS OF
21 JULY 11, 2016; and ROES 1 through 100, inclusive,
22 Real Parties in Interest.
23

24

25

26

27

28

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 INTRODUCTION

2 1. Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC ("Petitioner" or "Buena Vista") brings this Verified

3 Petition for Writ of Mandate ("Petition") to remedy the County of Santa Barbara's failure to

4 properly evaluate, under the California Environmental Quality Act (*CEQA," California Public

5 Resources Code, § 21000 et seq.), the potential significant environmental impacts of a real estate

6 development project proposed by the Lighthouse Trust. The project seeks to voluntarily demolish

7 and rebuild residential structures in an area of Montecito that (a) was affected by the January 9,

8 2018, debris flows and slides and (b) has been identified by the County itself as being an "Extreme
9 Risk Area" for future debris flows and flooding. In light of these circumstances, the County

10 improperly determined that the Lighthouse Trust project is categorically exempt from the provisions

11 of CEQA.

12 THE PARTIES

13 2. Buena Vista is California limited liability company whose business address is 219
14 Anacapa Street, Santa Barbara, California 93101. Buena Vista is the owner of real property located
15 at 796 Buena Vista Drive in the Montecito community in the unincorporated portion of the County
16 of Santa Barbara. Michael MacElhenny is the managing member of Buena Vista,
17 3. Respondent County of Santa Barbara (the "County") is a political subdivision of the
18 State of California. The County acts by and through its Board of Supervisors ("Board"), its

19 Montecito Planning Commission, and its Montecito Board of Architectural Review. The County
20 and its Board shall collectively be referred to as "Respondents."

21 4. DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, are, on the basis of information and belief, agents,
22 affiliates, representatives, employees, volunteers, and associates of the named Respondents. The

23 identities of said DOES are currently unknown, and when they become known, the Petition will be

24 amended to add them,

25 5. Petitioner is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, that Real Party in
26 Interest Errett Van Nice, as Trustee of the Lighthouse Trust U/T/A Dated as of July 11, 2016 (the
27 "Lighthouse Trust"), is the owner of real property located at 1948 and 1952 Tollis Avenue in the
28 Montecito community in the unincorporated portion of the County of Santa Barbara.

1
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 6. ROES 1 through 100, inclusive, are, on the basis of information and belief, agents,

2 affiliates, associates, members, owners, assignees, and successors of the Lighthouse Trust or its
trustee(s) or beneficiaries. The identities of said ROES are currently unknown, and when they

4 become known, the Petition will be amended to add them.

5 GENERAL ALLEGATIONS

6 The Lighthouse Proiect

7 7. Petitioner is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, that the Lighthouse

8 Trust currently owns the contiguous properties located at 1948 and 1952 Tollis Avenue in
9 Montecito (collectively, the "Property").

10 8. In 2017, the Lighthouse Trust's designated agent, Brian Banks, applied to the County

11 for certain land use development approvals, including a Land Use Permit from the County's

12 Planning and Development Director and a Preliminary Design Review approval from the Montecito

13 Board of Architectural Review. Broadly speaking, these applications requested the County to

14 authorize the Lighthouse Trust to: (a) merge the two existing, contiguous lots into one; (b)
15 demolish the two existing single-family homes; (c) construct a new single-family residence, an
16 underground basement, attached garage, guesthouse, cabana, pool, detached garage, and water

17 tanks; and (d) install new landscaping (collectively, the "Project").

18 9. The Lighthouse Trust's application to the County indicated that over 6,000 cubic

19 yards of soil would need to be excavated for the Project. The Lighthouse Trust subsequently
20 indicated that, in order to construct the Project's 4,947 square foot basement, approximately 4,800
21 cubic yards of soil would need to be excavated. The Lighthouse Trust indicated in its grading plan

22 that a substantial portion of the excavated soil will be utilized as fill on the Project site.

23 10. In its records, the County identifies the Lighthouse Trust as having the address of

24 1212 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10046. In its records, the County identifies the

25 Lighthouse Trust's agent, Brian Banks, as having the mailing address of P.O. Box 591,
26 Summerland, California 93067.

27 11. In 2017, the County's Planning and Development Director approved the Project's
28 Land Use Permit. After five hearings that resulted in minor architectural changes to the Project, the

2
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

v

L

2 Montecito Board of Architectural Review approved the Preliminary Design Review for the Project.

3 Buena Vista's representative timely appealed these approvals to the Montecito Planning

4 Commission, which also approved the Project's land use approvals on January 3, 2018. Buena Vista
again timely appealed the Project to the County's Board of Supervisors.

6 Santa Barbara County's Response to the Thomas Fire and Subsequent Montecito Slides

12.

7 On December 4, 2017, the rapidly-moving Thomas Fire began in Ventura County.

8 Within two weeks, the fire had spread to Santa Barbara County, where it scorched the hillsides
above Montecito and destroyed over two dozen homes in that community. The fire ultimately grew
9 to be the largest in California's recorded history.

10 13.

11 The potential impact of wildfire on debris flow is well known. Wildfire consumes

12 the vegetation and shallow root system that holds soil in place, setting the stage for rapid erosion.

13 The intense heat also causes slopes to repel, rather than absorb, rainwater by changing the

14 composition of the soil and drying the soil to such a degree that it loses the ability to soak up water.

15 Steep slopes are particularly susceptible to erosion following wildfire.
14.

16 In January 2018, a powerful storm inundated parts of Santa Barbara County with
rain. The scarred hillsides above Montecito

17 gave way, causing flooding, mudslides, and debris
flows that led to the loss of nearly two dozen lives.

18 15.

19 The January slides caused substantial physical and property damage in Montecito as
well, The slides damaged or destroyed over 200 homes and over 100 other structures (e.g., guest
20 homes, bridges, and commercial buildings) in Montecito.

21 16.

22 The January slides affected the Lighthouse Trust Property as well as adjacent and

23 nearby residences. Buena Vista Creek, which is north of the Property, could not contain the debris

24 flow that ultimately traveled through a local channel, across Buena Vista Drive, and down to the

25 Property itself as well as to the south and east of the Property, A map compiled by the County

26 Office of Emergency Management indicates that several structures near the Property were damaged
or destroyed by this debris flow.

27 17.

28 After the January slides, the County's Office of Emergency Management prepared a
map indicating, in part, which areas of Montecito would be subject to ongoing risk from future

3
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

debris flows. That map, last updated March 10, 2018, designates the Lighthouse Property as being

2 in the "Extreme Risk Area," which the County defined to mean that the Property is still "at risk of

3 debris flows from water overtopping the banks, creating high velocity flow (debris, rocks, mud and

4 water) that causes destruction."

5 18. In a March 13, 2018, memorandum entitled "Guidance to Property Owners

6 Montecito Debris Flow Rebuilds," the County's Planning and Development Department provided

7 guidance to property owners seeking to rebuild damaged or destroyed structures after the Thomas

8 Fire and January slides. According to the memorandum, "County staff is working to assist property

0 owners in the rebuild process following the January 9th debris flow in Montecito which occurred

10 after a very significant rainfall event in the Thomas burn area. Unlike rebuilding after fire, the

11 current situation poses unique challenges."

12 19. The March 13, 2018, memorandum continues:

13 Additionally, according to the U.S. Forest Service Burned Area

14 Emergency Response Team and the State of California Watershed Emergency Response Team reports, the area is subject to ongoing

15 threats of debris flows during significant rain events (a half inch of rain or more in an hour) for the next two to five years. In order to

16 prevent potential damage to rebuilt structures and other structures in the community, any improvements that occur during this timeframe
17 should be done with proper attention to changes in topography and new creck profiles.

18 20. Despite the County's March 13, 2018, memorandum, the Lighthouse Trust continued

19 to seek approval from the County of its Project, which constitutes a voluntary demolition and
20 rebuild of a home in an Extreme Risk Area.

21 The County's Local CEQA Guidelines and Thresholds

22 21. Broadly speaking, CEQA directs certain state and local agencies to identify the

23 significant environmental impacts of certain of their actions and to avoid or mitigate such impacts,

24 if feasible. A "significant effect on the environment" is a substantial, or potentially substantial,

25 adverse change in the physical conditions of the area affected by a proposed project. (Cal. Pub.

26 Resources Code, § 21068; CEQA Guidelines, § 15382.) A "project" is "the whole of an action,

27 which has a potential for resulting in either a direct physical change in the environment, or a

28 reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment." (CEQA Guidelines, § 15378,

4
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

v

subd. (a).) A "project" may include: an activity directly undertaken by any public agency (e.g.,

2 public works construction); an activity undertaken by a private entity that is supported in whole or

3 in part by a public agency (e.g., through grants or subsidies); or an activity involving the issuance to

4 a private entity an agency approval such as a permit or license. (Ibid.)

22. The Governor's Office of Planning and Research and the California Natural

6 Resources Agency together prepare, develop, certify, and adopt the "CEQA Guidelines" (14 Cal.

7 Code Regs., § 15000 et seq.) and amendments thereto. The CEQA Guidelines are regulations that

8 clarify, interpret, and implement CEQA.

9 23. The CEQA Guidelines encourage local agencies such as the County to:

10 develop and publish thresholds of significance that the agency uses in
11 the determination of the significance of environmental effects. A threshold of significance is an identifiable quantitative, qualitative or
12 performance level of particular environmental effect, non-
compliance with which means the effect will normally be determined
13 to be significant by the agency and compliance with which means the

14 effect normally will be determined to be less than significant.

15 (CEQA Guidelines, §15064.7, subd. (a).)

16 24. The County adopted Guidelines for the Implementation of the California
17 Environmental Quality Act of 1970 As Amended ("Implementation Guidelines"), which, broadly
18 speaking, governs the County's implementation of the procedural elements of CEQA. The County

19 also adopted its Environmental Thresholds and Guidelines Manual ("Thresholds Manual"), which,
20 broadly speaking, guides the County's substantive determination under CEQA as to whether a
21 project may have a significant effect on the environment.

22 25. The County's Implementation Guidelines provide that a project applicant must
23 include, at the outset of the permitting process, sufficient information to properly evaluate the

24 project, For example, the Guidelines direct that a permit application should contain "[d]etailed

25 information on site conditions, particularly any unique characteristics such as environmentally

26 sensitive habitats or geologic hazards."

27 26. Pursuant to the County's Thresholds Manual, a project is deemed to have a
28 potentially significant environmental impact "if the proposed development activity, including all

5
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

V

F proposed mitigation measures, could result in substantially increased erosion, landslides, soil creep,

2 mudslides and unstable slopes.... In addition, impacts are considered significant when people or

3 structures would be exposed to major geologic hazards upon implementation of the project."

4 (Emphasis added.)

5 The Board of Supervisor's Consideration of the Lighthouse Project

6 27. On May 15, 2018, four months after the Montecito slides, the Santa Barbara County

7 Board of Supervisors considered Buena Vista's appeal regarding the Project.

8 28. In advance of the hearing, Buena Vista timely submitted written comments to the

9 Board regarding the proposed Project. A true and correct copy of that May 11, 2018, letter, without

10 its attachments, is attached hereto as Exhibit A. In its comment letter, Buena Vista explained that

11 the County and Lighthouse Trust failed to consider potential significant environmental impacts

12 from the Project arising from and associated with the January 9, 2018, slides, which physically and

13 otherwise transformed the landscape of the Montecito community, While the County expressly
14 recognized that there are substantial ongoing risks associated with development within Montecito,

15 the County did not evaluate such risks in connection with the Project even though the Lighthouse

16 Property was affected by the January slides and the County identified the Property as being in an
17 Extreme Risk. Area for future debris flows and flooding.

18 29. At the May 15, 2018, hearing before the Board, Buena Vista provided additional

19 verbal comments regarding the County's failure to comply with the provisions of CEQA.
20 30, At the conclusion of the May 15, 2018, hearing regarding the Project, the Board
21 denied Buena Vista's appeal of the Project, thereby approving the Land Use Permit and Preliminary

22 Design Review for the Project. In so doing, the Board adopted certain findings. The Board also

23 adopted, pursuant to CEQA, a Notice of Exemption for the Project.

24 31. The County's Notice of Exemption determined that the Project is "categorically"

25 exempt from CEQA pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15301, subdivision (l) and section
26 15303, subdivisions (a) and (e), The Notice of Exemption also addressed CEQA Guidelines section

27 15300.2, which enumerates several exceptions to the categorical exemptions provided for in the
28 CEQA Guidelines, including subdivision (c), which provides, "A categorical exemption shall not be

6
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

used for an activity where there is a reasonable possibility that the activity will have a significant a

2 effect on the environment due to unusual circumstances.3 The County's Notice of Exemption for

3 the Project states, "There is no substantial evidence that the proposed project involves unusual
4 circumstances, including future activities, resulting in or which might reasonably result in

5 significant impacts which threaten the environment. Accordingly, this exception to the Categorical

6 Exemption is not applicable to the proposed project."

7 32. County staff informed Buena Vista's representative that the County's Clerk of the
8 Board publicly posted the Notice of Exemption on May 16, 2018.

9 EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTR VE REMEDIES. INADEQUATE REMEDY AT LAW,

10 JURISDICTION, AND VENUE

11 33. Petitioner Buena Vista has exhausted all available administrative remedies before

12 Respondents or is otherwise excused from doing so.

13 34. Buena Vista has no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy at law, and thus seeks a writ

14 of mandate from this Court.

15 35. Pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21667.5, Buena Vista timely and properly
16 notified Respondents that Buena Vista intended to file this Petition. A true and correct copy of that
17 notice, including its proof of service, is attached hereto as Exhibit B.

18 36. Buena Vista separately and concurrently notifies Respondents that Buena Vista has

19 elected to prepare the record of proceedings in this matter pursuant to Public Resources Code
20 section 21167.6, subdivision (b)(2).

21 37. Pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21667.4, subdivision (a), and CEQA

22 Guidelines section 15232, Buena Vista separately and concurrently requests from this Court a

23 hearing on this Petition.

24 38. This Court has jurisdiction to issue the requested writ of mandate pursuant to Public

25 Resources Code sections 21168 and 21168.9 and California Code of Civil Procedure sections

26 1094.5 and/or 1085.

27 39. Venue in this Court is appropriate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 393
28 and 394 because the County and the Lighthouse Property are located in the County of Santa

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 Barbara.

2 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION

3 Violation of CEQA: Improper Determination of Categorical Exemption

4 (Against All Respondents and Real Parties in Interest)

5 40. Paragraphs 1 through 39 are incorporated here as if fully set forth herein.

6 41. The County determined that the Lighthouse Project was categorically exempt from

7 CEQA pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15301 and 15303.

8 42. Pursuant to CEQA Guidelines section 15300,2, subdivision (c), "A categorical

9 exemption shall not be used for an activity where there is a reasonable possibility that the activity

10 will have a significant effect on the environment due to unusual circumstances."

11 43. There is a reasonable possibility that the Project will have a significant effect on the

12 environment due to unusual circumstances.

13 44. There are "unusual circumstances" concerning the Project arising from the January

14 9, 2018, slides in Montecito. The County itself identifies the Lighthouse Property as being in an

15 Extreme Risk Area, meaning that the Property is still "at risk of debris flows from water
16 overtopping the banks, creating high velocity flow (debris, rocks, mud and water) that causes
17 I destruction.»

18 45. In addition, the County, in a March 13, 2018, memorandum noted, "Unlike

19 rebuilding after a fire, the current situation poses unique challenges." The County further noted,

20 Additionally, according to the U.S. Forest Service Burned Area

21 Emergency Response Team and the State of California Watershed
Emergency Response Team reports, the area is subject to ongoing
22 threats of debris flows during significant rain events (a half inch of
23 rain or more in an hour) for the next two to five years, In order to prevent potential damage to rebuilt structures and other structures in
the community, any improvements that occur during this timeframe
24 should be done with proper attention to changes in topography and

25 new creek profiles.

26 (Emphasis added.)
27 46. The County's determination that the proposed Project does not involve unusual
28 circumstances "which might reasonably result in significant impacts which threaten the

8
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 environment" is not supported by substantial evidence in the record.

2 47. The unusual circumstances described above give rise to a reasonable possibility that a

3 the Project will have a significant effect on the environment.

4 48. Pursuant to the County's own Thresholds Manual, a project is automatically deemed

5 to have a potentially significant environmental impact "if the proposed development activity,

6 including all proposed mitigation measures, could result in substantially increased erosion,
landslides, soil creep, mudslides and unstable slopes.... In addition, impacts are considered

8 significant when people or structures would be exposed to major geologic hazards upon
9 implementation of the project."

10 49. The County itself identifies the Lighthouse Property as being "at risk of debris flows

11 from water overtopping the banks, creating high velocity flow (debris, rocks, mud and water) that

12 causes destruction." In addition, the Project, its inhabitants, and its neighbors may be exposed to

13 major geologic hazards if the Project is implemented. The County failed to analyze the potential
14 impact, on the Property and nearby property owners, of the Project's substantial earthwork, given

15 the potential changes in topography and creek profiles that have resulted, or may result in the future,
16 from mud and debris flows.

17 50. There is a "fair argument," as that terminology is understood in is the CEQA context,

18 that the unusual circumstances described above give rise to a reasonable possibility that the Project

19 will a have a significant environmental impact.

20 51. The County improperly determined that the Project is exempt from the provisions of

21 CEQA, The County improperly determined that there "is no substantial evidence that the proposed

22 project involves unusual circumstances, including future activities, resulting in or which might

23 reasonably result in significant impacts which threaten the environment." The County improperly

24 determined that the "exception to the Categorical Exemption [found in CEQA Guidelines section

25 15300.2, subdivision (c)] is not applicable to the proposed project."

26 52. The County's improper determination that the Project is exempt from the provisions

27 of CEQA constitutes a prejudicial abuse of discretion.

28

9
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

1 PRAYER FOR RELIEF

2 In each of the respects enumerated above, Respondents and Real Parties in Interest have

3 violated their duties under the law, abused their discretion, failed to proceed in a manner required

4 by law, and made determinations that are not supported by substantial evidence.

5 WHEREFORE, Petitioner prays for relief as follows:

6 A. For a peremptory writ of mandate directing Respondents to void, vacate, and set

7 aside the Board's denial of Buena Vista's appeal and, in turn, its approval of the Land Use Permit

8 and Preliminary Design Review for the Lighthouse Project;

9 B. For a peremptory writ of mandate directing Respondents to void, vacate, and set
10 aside the Board's approval of the Notice of Exemption for the Lighthouse Project;
11 C. For a temporary stay, temporary restraining order, and preliminary or permanent
12 injunctive relief or other order enjoining Respondents and the Real Parties in Interest from taking
13 any physical action in furtherance of the Lighthouse Project or its Land Use Permit and Preliminary
14 Design Review during the pendency of this action;
15 D. For costs of the suit;

16 E. For reasonable attorney fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5; and
17 F. For such other and further relief as the Court deems just and proper.
18

19 Dated: June 19, 2018 Respectfully Submitted,
20 FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP

21

22 By: M De Maguire
23 Attorneys for Petitioner,

24 BUENA VISTA 796, LLC

25

26

27

28

10
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

2 VERIFICATION

3 I, Michael MacElhenny, am the manager of BUENA VISTA 796, LLC, the petitioner in this
proceeding and am authorized to make this verification on its behalf. I have read the foregoing
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE and know the contents thereof. The

6 contents are true of my own knowledge, except as to matters stated therein on information and

7 belief, and as to those maiters I believe them to be true.
I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.
Executed on June /& 2018, at Santa Barbare, California,
10

11 G
12 MICHAEA. MACELHENNY
13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

EXHIBIT A

FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP
ATTORNEY3 AT LAW
1080 SOUTH KIMBALL ROAD, VENTUMA, CALIPORNIA 03004
PHONE: (005) G50-6000 PAOSIMILE, (005) 650-6810
www.fooplaw.com

MICHABL W. CASE
JOHN C. ORR WILLIAM B. BMITH LEBUE A. MOADAM KYMBEALEY E. PROK 1926-201 THEODORE J. ENOLAND DAVID H. SHRA
JOSEPH L. ETROMMAN. J JAMES Q. MODBRMOTT BAET G. ANDERBON
MARK T. BARNEY JOHN M. ANOERSEN LAUREN E, BIME THOMAR.A. PERGUSON
LAUREN C. RAD WILLIAM A, PATERSON RETIRED*
DAVID W. TREDWAY MICHAEI. A. VELTHOEN NEAL P. MAQUIAE JOHN A. HRIBAR MAX R. ENGELHARDT
WENDY Q. LASOHER DOUGLAO K. GOLDWATER LANEJ, LOPBZ 4EBBJOA M. WAN or Oounsel
DAVID L.. SHAIN 5aOTt • GAMSKY JEGHE B. CAHILL JOSHUA 8. HOPSTONE HOBNNT S. ENGLAN CHRISTOPHER . KITABAICI ARTHUR ZITTEI

Writer's Emeil:
nmaguirc(@@fcoplaw.com

May 11, 2018

Viq Email

Mr. Das Williams, Chair
and Members of the Santa Barbara County Board of Supervisors
105 E. Anapamu Street, Suite 407
Santa Barbara, CA 93101
Email: sbcob@co.santa-barbara.ca.us

Re: MacElhenny Appeal of Lighthouse Trust Demo/Rebuild Project (Case Nos. 16BAR-00000-00219 and 17LUP-00000-00035) Hearing Agenda May 15, 2018

Dear Chair Williams and Members of the Board:

On January 9, 2018, the County of Santa Barbara experienced deadly and widespread debris flows and mudslides that, physically and otherwise, transformed the landscape of its communities, particularly Montecito. Even as Montecito residents attempt to rebuild damaged and destroyed homes and properties, the County of Santa Barbara has recognized that there are substantial ongoing risks associated with such development. The County therefore has determined that it requires additional technical information before it can have confidence that individual projects may proceed without adversely impacting project applicants and their neighbors. Notably, County staff has requested that individual property owners refrain from pursuing plans for rebuilding homes until that information becomes available.
In the midst of the County's efforts to balance public safety concerns with the needs of residents who lost their homes and other structures, the Lighthouse Trust continues to seek approval from the County to voluntarily demolish two homes and rebuild one new residence on its property on Tollis Avenue in Montecito. This property was physically impacted by the January mud-slides and has been identified by the County as being in an Extreme Risk Area for future debris flows and flooding. Despite these critical issues, the Lighthouse Trust has not provided any information required to properly evaluate the potential environmental impacts

Exhibit A
Page_.__of8_Pages

Chair Williams
Board of Supervisors
May 11, 2018
Page 2

associated with the project. This is true even though the County's local environmental standards
dictate that environmental "impacts are considered significant when people or structures would
be exposed to major geologic hazards upon implementation of the project." (Emphasis added.)

Instead of properly addressing the potential impacts of its project in order to assure the safety of the applicant and its neighbors, the Lighthouse Trust continues to seek special treatient to pursue its project as though the January slides did not occur. All County decision-makers who have considered the Lighthouse Trust project did so prior to January 9, 2018, without the benefit of the considerable new information regarding debris flows and flood risk that is now known to the County and the Montecito community.

In light of the Lighthouse Trust project's failure to consider potential environmental impacts arising from and associated with the January 9th slides, we request that the Board of Supervisors direct County staff to prepare the requisite technical studies and analyses -- under the California Environmental Quality Act and otherwise - s0 that the County and the Montecito community are assured that the project can be developed without adversely impacting the applicant and its neighbors.
While the project applicant will most assuredly object to any delay arising from the to-be- completed technical studies and analyses, recall again that the Lighthouse Trust seeks to demolish its existing residences voluntarily; it is not trying to rebuild a home lost in the catastrophe of January 9th. Consequently, any considerations that support a streamlined rebuilding process are entirely inapplicable here. The Lighthouse Trust project's tension with substantial public safety concerns cannot and should not be overridden by arguments regarding
project delays.

Accordingly, on behalf of Michael MacElhenny', we submit the following comments
regarding the above-referenced item and request that this letter be included in the adrninistrative
record for the matter.

The Project: The Lighthouse Trust, of New York, New York2, owns the adjacent
properties located at 1948 and 1952 Tollis Avenue in Montecito (collectively, the "Property").
The Property currently contains, among other items, two single-family homes. The Lighthouse Trust proposes to demolish these homes and construct a new 9,185 sq. ft. home along with an

1 Mr. MacElhenny is the managing member of the legal entity, Buena Vista 796, LLC, that owns the property located at 796 Buena Vista Avenue, immediately north of the Lighthouse Property.
We understand that Ms. Gwyneth Paltrow controls or benefits from the Lighthousc Trust, the owner of 1948 and 1952 Tollis Avenue.
Exhibit A
Page Z of 8 Pages

Chair Wiltiams
Board of Supervisors
May 11, 2018
Page

attached garage, guesthouse, guesthouse garage, swimming pool, pool cabana, and two new water tanks (the "Project"). The Project also proposes to "cut," or excavate, approximately 4,800 cubic yards of soil to accommodate the proposed home's 4,947 sq, ft. basement. While a substantial portion of the excavated soil will be utilized as fill on the site, the excavation involves the equivalent of approximately 343 to 480 truck trips worth of soil. The Project also includes a new landscaping plan.
The Lighthouse Trust submitted applications to the County for preliminary design review approval from the Montecito Board of Architectural Review (MBAR) as well a land use permit from the Planning and Development Director. Michael MacElhenny appealed the MBAR and Director approvals to the Montecito Planning Commission and, in turn, that Commission's
approval of the Project to the Board of Supervisors. Notably, all of the County decision-makers that have previously considered the project did so before January 9, 2018 - without the benefit of current knowledge regarding the debris flow and flood risks in Montecito and on the Property.
The January 9, 2018 Slides: The Planning Commission considered the Project on a January 3, 2018. Less than a week later, the Montecito area was subjected to devastating and tragic mudslides that claimed almost two dozen lives and damaged or destroyed over 200 homes and over 100 other structures (e.g., guest homes, bridges, and commercial buildings) in Montecito. (See Attachments A, B.)
Notably, the slides affected the Property and damaged adjacent and nearby residences. Buena Vista Creek, which is north of the Property, could not contain debris flow that ultimately traveled to the Property itself as well as to the south and east. That flow traversed a local channel
that crosses Buena Vista Avenue. (See April 30, 2018, photographs included as Attachment C.) A map compiled-by the Santa Barbara Independent illustrates the debris flow path into, through, and beyond that local channel,' (See Attachment D.) This same map confirms that debris flow ended up on the Lighthouse Property itself and, indeed, in areas of the Property where the Project's larger new home will be constructed.
Furthermore, a separate map compiled by the County Office of Emergency Management demonstrates that several structures near the Proporty were damaged or destroyed by the debris flow, including the home to the south, a guest home two properties north, and several homes just

3 The map may be located at:
https://www.google.com/maps/d/viewer?mid=1tSzYm6DZpootH4aS3STEfYIHIYPgak2jO&ll=3 4.442185994130995%2C-119.61104374367369&z=17, last visited May 10, 2018,
Exhibit A Page 3_of 8Pages

Chair Williams
Board of Supervisors
May 11, 2018
Page 4

east of the Lighthouse Property.* (See Attachment E.) Lastly, the Office of Emergency Management prepared a map indicating, in part, which arcas of Montecito comprise existing debris flow risk areas. (See Attachment F.) That map, last updated March 10, 2018, identifies the Lighthouse Property as being within the Extreme Risk Arca, the highest level of concern. That designation recognizes that a property is "at risk of debris flows from water overtopping the banks, creating high velocity flow (debris, rocks, mud and water) that causes destruction."

In a March 13, 2018, memorandum (Attachment G), the County reaffirmed that the
Montecito area:

is subject to ongoing threats of debris flows during significant rain events (a half inch of rain or more in an hour) for the next two to
five years. In order to prevent potential damage to rebuilt
structures and other structures in the community, any
improvements that occur during this timeframe should be done with proper attention to changes in topography and new creek profiles.

(Emphasis added.) The County further explained that "the current situation poses unique
challenges" even beyond what would be associated with "rebuilding after a fire, as the
Montecito "landforms have changed significantly, including property elevations and at some
locations, the width and depth of creeks.'

The Ongoing Impacts of the January Slides: In fact, the County's March 13, 2018
memorandum indicates that the entire floodplain management program is currently inadequate. As noted, the County relies heavily on FEMA's Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) in implementing its own floodplain ordinance. As the memorandum notes, though,
the current FIRM maps are no longer representative of on-the- ground conditions due to the land-changing debris flow. The base flood elevations on the current FIRM maps do not reflect current topography and are of little use in the rebuilding process where

4 The map may be located at: https://sbc- gis.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=ee848a57d8b2416eb2802da300df5b6e, last visited May 8, 2018.
5 The map may be located at: https://sbc- gis.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=469ab8e3057a4f56aee5e3f080dc7fb1,
last visited May 10, 2018.
Exhibit A
Page_tofgPages

Chair Williams
Board of Supervisors
May 11, 2018
Page 5

topography has changed. FBMA will be developing new FIRM maps but this is expected to take four to five years.
To provide interim assistance to property owners while the FIRM maps are permanently updated, County staff, in conjunction with FEMA, is preparing a "Flood Hazard/Mapping Analysis" to be completed in several months. County staff has advised property owners to delay design plans and permit applications in Montecito so that the County's land use permit process and decisions may be informed by the Flood Hazard/Mapping Analysis.
For those property owners that decline the County's request to wait until the interim Flood Hazard/Mapping Analysis has been completed, the March 13th memorandum states that the County will require "submittals" to "facilitate the review process," which submittals may include: a current topographic study; a hydrologic analysis; and plans prepared with the geotechnical civil and hydraulic engineering, soil erosion, hydrology, and engineering geology expertisc.

In addition to the caution expressed by County staff, the Montecito community supports the County's efforts to ensure that new development within Montecito is approved after being informed at least by the Flood Hazard/Mapping Analysis. In April, the Montecito Planning Commission reaffirmed the County's March 13th memorandum, discussed above, and voted unanimously to:

recommend() that the Board of Supervisors wait to take action on
the proposed Ordinance Amendment to the Montecito Land Use and Development Codo (MLUDC) and recommend[] that the County Planning Commission recommend that the Board of• Supervisors wait to take action on the proposed Ordinance Amendment to Article II, the Coastal Zoning Ordinance, until the
Flood Hazard/Recovery Mapping comes out in June 2018,
members of the public have had sufficient time to review the
Ordinance Amendments in context with the new advisory base
flood elevations, and resiliency and adaptive management
strategies have been considered. Upon receipt of this information, the Montecito Planning Commission requests that the Ordinance Amendments be referred back to the Montecito Planning
Commission for further review and recommendations,

(Attachment H; emphasis added.) The Montecito Planning Commission Chair, Joe Cole, stated
that the County's proposed ordinance amendments regarding streamlined rebuilding should be delayed because the "County needs an overall strategy that would include a threat analysis, early
Exhibit A Page 5of S Pages

Chair Williams
Board of Supervisors
May 11, 2018
Page 6

warning monitoring, slope protections and neighborhood zoning based on actual hazard maps." Chair Cole continued, "We need to use FEMA mapping to figure out where the real risks are." (Attachment I.)
The California Environmental Quality Aet: While the County has, so far, indicated that new development within Montecito should be informed by technical analyses of the development site's ongoing flood and hazard risks, it is also important to remember that the County's interim response to the January slides is not the only arbiter of what analyses may be required in connection with the land use permit process. The California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) is designed, in part, to "[i]nform governmental decision makers and the public about the potential, significant environmental effects of proposed activities" and to "fi]dentify the ways that environmental damage can be avoided or significantly reduced." (CEQA Guidelines, § 15002.)
In order to determine when a development project may have a potentially significant impact on the environment, CEQA encourages local agencies such as the County to:
develop and publish thresholds of significance that the agency uses in the determination of the significance of environmental effects. A
threshold of significance is an identifiable quantitative, qualitative or performance level of a particular environmental effect, non-
compliance with which means the effect will normally be determined to be significant by the agency and compliance with which means the effect normally will be determined to be less than
significant.

(CEQA Guidelines, §15064.7, subd, (a).) The County has accepted this invitation. First, the County has established a detailed framework - its Guidelines for the Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970 As Amended - governing the procedural components of CEQA. (Attachment J.) The County also adopted its Environmental Thresholds and Guidelines Manual, which guide the "Planning and Development Department's determination on whether or not a project may have a significant effect on the environment."
(Attachment K..)

On the procedural side, the County's Guidelines provide that a project applicant must include; at the outset of the permitting process, sufficient information to properly evaluate the project. For example, the Guidelines direct that a permit application should contain "[d]etailed information on site conditions, particularly any unique characteristics such as environmentally sensitive habitats or geologic hazards is required." Additionally, for "projects which may ... pose

Exhibit A
Pageleof&Pages

Chair Williams
Board of Supervisors
May 11, 2018
Page 7

a threat to public health or safety, information regarding the engineering basis and design of the project facilities and the effects of project operations is required."

Such information is critical because, as the County's Environmental Thresholds and
Guidelines Manual instructs, a project is deemed to have a potentially significant environmental impact "if the proposed development activity, including all proposed mitigation measures, could result in substantially increased erosion, landslides, soil creep, mudslides and unstable slopes.... In addition, impacts are considered significant when people or structures would be exposed to major geologic hazards upon implementation of the project." (Emphasis added.)

The Lighthouse Project's Potentially Significant Impacts: With regard to the
Lighthouse Trust Project, the County prepared - before the January slides - a project description and Notice of Exemption indicating that the Project was exempt from the provisions of CEQA.
The same project description and Notice of Exemption, which have not been revised to address
the substantial environmental issues arising from the January slides, appear in the Board's packet for the appeal. Notably, then, the County has not addressed, through the CEQA process or otherwise, the potential impacts associated with demolishing and rebuilding a home in what the County itself has identified as an Extreme Risk Area for ongoing debris flows and flooding.
Instead, the County continues to rely on CEQA exemptions that are typically applicable to single-family homes and similarly inconsequential projects. However, the CEQA exemptions relied on by the County are, in CEQA terminology, categorical exemptions, which renders them subject to CEQA Guidelines section 15300,2 - the "exception to the exemptions" provision. That CEQA Guidelines provision specifies, in part, that categorical exemptions "shall not be used for an activity where there is a reasonable possibility that the activity will have significant effect on the environment due to unusual circumstances."

It is clear that both elements of the "exception to the exemption" - unusual circumstances
and the reasonable possibility of a significant impact - are present with regard to the Lighthouse
Project. As discussed above, Santa Barbara County experienced a life- and community-altering event in January. The Lighthouse Property was itself impacted by the debris flow resulting from the January slides. The same debris flow damaged or destroyed structures on adjacent and nearby properties. The risk is also ongoing. The County itself identified the Property as being in an Extreme Risk Area. The County acknowledged that its prior flood management program is, currently, severely lacking. The January slides radically altered not only the physical conditions of Montecito, but also what was known about the likely risks associated with living in
Montecito.

Additionally, there is beyond a "reasonable possibility" that the Project will have
significant adverse enyironmental impact. As noted above, the County's own CBQA thresholds
Exhibit A Page_3of SPages

Chair Williams
Board of Supervisors
May 11,2018
Page 8

state that "impacts are considered significant when people or structures would be exposed to major geologie hazards upon implementation of the project." Again, the County identified the
Property as being in an Extreme Risk Area. Moreover, the flood and debris risk associated with the Property is not just hypothetical. The Property was, as discussed above, actually impacted by the debris flow from the Buena Vista Creek, Despite this, the County has not conducted an analysis, under CEQA or otherwise, regarding these potential impacts.

It is also worth noting that the Lighthouse Project includes elements that threaten to increase the Property's geologic hazards. For example, in order to accommodate the Project, including its basement, approximately 340 to 480 truck trips worth of soil will be excavated at the Property, including, in the words of County staff, to "step down the hillside in a manicured landscape." The County has not analyzed the potential impact of such grading, including potential impacts on adjacent properties as a result of such significant earthwork.
For the foregoing reasons, we request that the Board grant the appeals outright, or, alternatively, direct the Planning and Development Department to prepare an Initial Study under CEQA that will inform the County as to what type of environmental review will be required under CEQA for the Project if it proceeds.'

Sincerely, TM I Neal P. Maguire

NPM/tm

Attachments

6 Pursuant to the County's Guidelines for the Implementation of the California Environmental Quality Act of 1970 As Amended, "A determination that a project is not exempt may not be appealed; a determination that a project is exempt may be reviewed by the decisionmaker at the time of consideration of the project, and if the decisionmaker disagrees with the determination of exemption, the decisionmaker shall instruct the Planning and Development Department to
prepare an Initial Study." (Emphasis added.)
Exhibit A Page 8 of & Pages

EXHIBIT B

Neal P. Maguire (SBN 234531) Joshua S. Hopstone (SBN 273719) FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP
1050 South Kimball Road 3 Ventura, CA 93004 Telephone: (805) 659-6800 Facsimile: (805) 659-6818

5 Email: pmaguiro@fcoplaw.com jhopstone@fcoplaw.com
6 Attorncys for Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC

SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
9 COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA
10

11 BUENA VISTA 796, LLC, : California Case No.

12 limited liability company, Filed:

13 Petitioner,
NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA
14 V. PETITION

15 COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, a
political subdivision of the State of
16 California, acting by and through its BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; and DOES 1
17 through 100, inclusive,
18 Respondents,

19

20 ERRETT VAN NICE, AS TRUSTEE OF
21• THE LIGHTHOUSE TRUST U/T/A
DATED AS OF JULY 11, 2016; and ROES
22 through 100, inclusive,

23 Real Parties in Interest.

24

25

26 TO THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA AND ITS BOARD OF SUPERVISORS:
27 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, pursuant to California Public Resources Code section 21667.5,
28 that Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC (*Petitioner") intends to file a Verified Petition for a Writ of
B Exhibit-
1705604 NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION Page

Mandate ("the "Petition") under the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act (Pub.

2 Resources Code, § 21000 et seq., "CHQA,") against Respondent, County of Santa Barbara and its

3 Board of Supervisors (collectively, "Respondents"), in the California Superior Court for the

4 County of Santa Barbara, challenging Respondents' approval of land use entitlements (County
5 Case Nos, 16BAR-00000-00219 and 17LUP-00000-00035) and a Notice of Exemption for the

6 Lighthouse Trust Demo/Rebuild Project (the "Project"). More specifically, the Petition alleges that
Respondents violated CEQA Guidelines section 15300.2 in relying upon a categorical exemption

The Petition will request the Superior Court to issue a writ of mandate directing and for the Project.

10 compelling Respondents vacate and set aside the approval of the Notice of Exemption and land use
11 approvals for the Project,
FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP E9515 PGTO SCEA OpOAL Date: June 15, 2018
Abl Mee S pOON SMOL IC I'TI NOSHEIVA INO ISVO NOSADEIS 12

Neal P. Maguire Joshua S. Hopstone By: 13

Attornoys for Petitioner, Buena Vista 796, LLC 14

*0055 EOOURO SRA 15

rquaey apnos o90 16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

Exhibit B 27

Page2 of t Pages 2 28

NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION 1705604

PROOF OF SERVICE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF VENTURA:
am employed in the County of Ventura, State of Callfornia. I am ovor the age of 18 and not a party to the within action, My business address is 1050 South Kimball Road, Ventura, CA 93101.
On June 15, 2018, I served C the original & a true copy of tho foregoing document desoribed as NOTICE OR INTENT TO FILE CEQA PETITION, which ls related to the action styled BUENA VISTA 796, LLC, et al. v COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, et al, ERRETT VAN NICE, et al., Real Parties In Interest, Santa Barbara Superior Couri Case No. TBA, on the person or persons listod on the attached Service List as follows:
C BY MAIL; I enclosed the above-described document in (an) envelope(s) with postage thereon fully pre-paid and addressed as set forth on the attached Service List. I am I readily familiar with FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP's practice of collection and processing correspondence for mail with tho U.S, Postal Servico. Pursuant to that practice, I placed the above-described envelope into the Firm's designated receptacle, of which the contents ate to be deposited with tho U.S. Postal Service on that samo day at, California in the ordinary course of business. I am aware that on motion of the party sorved, service is presumed mvalid if the postal cancollation date or postage metor dato is more than one day after the date stated herein.
0 BY EXPRESS MAIL; enclosed the above-described document in (an) envelope(s) with Express Mail postage fully pre-paid and addressed as set forth on the attachod Service List. placed the above-desoribed envolope into a post office, mailbox, subpost offico, substation, or mall chute, or other Hke facility regularly maintained by the
FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP United States Postal Service for receipt of Express Mall.
TRIE TGUNO SOTIEA MOORA M50 Souda Kimball Road OSCAS PALE ATPO PUORNDCL 305P X BY OVERNIGHT DELIVERY: I enclosed the above-described document in (an) envelope(s) of a type designated by the express service carrier for overnight delivery with delivery fees fully pre-paid or provided for and addressed as set forth on the attached Service List, I 2 placed the aboye-described envelopo into a box or other facility regularly maintuined by the express sorvice carrier/C delivered the above-doscribed envelope to an authorized courier or driver authorized by the express service carrier to receive documents.
D BY PERSONAL SERVICE: I personally delivered the above-described document to
+0055 euogsno emea D a party to this action; C an attorney for who is
party to this action, by leaving the document at the attorney's offioe in an onyelope clearly labeled to identify the attorney being served with D a.m, E p.m. on receptionist or a person having charge the office; at
at
Z BY ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION: I served a true copy of the I document electronically in Portable Document Format (PDF) by transmitting it from MMERCADD @fcoplaw.com to the electronic service address(cs) (emails), as indicated on the attached Service List at 21B c D a.m. 62 p.m. on the date set forth above.
X (State) I declare under penalty of porjury undor the laws of the State of California that the abovo is true and correct.
0 (Federal) 1 deolare that I am employed in the office of a member of the bar of this Court at whose
direction the servico was made.
Executed on June 15, 2018, at Ventura, Callfornia, sia meccalo
Tina Mercado

In aecordauco with the Cullfornia Code of Civil Procedure and Rules of Court regarding service, an executed copy of this Pronf of Service is on Mie al Ferguson Case Orr Palerson LLP aud will be mude avnilable for photocopying and inspection upon a request made pursuant to applicabie stululory provisions.
Exhibit
1705604 PROOF OF SERVICE PageEcot . Pages

SERVICE LIST

Clerk of the Board
Board of Supervisors
County of Santa Barbara
105 E. Anapamu Street, Room 407
Santa Barbara CA, 93101

Telephone: (805) 568-2240 Facsimile: (805) 568-2249
Email: sbcob@co.santa-barbara.ca.us

4550 E. Tbousaod Oais Blvd, St- 250 ¿TTNOSESIYJ EL ESVO NOSODNZA * TES EUGETO *TA RSOM HOUSS ECIOZIRO ETUMRA 1050 Soct

14

Exhibit -B
2
1705604 Page 4 of 44 Pages
PROOF OF SERVICE

SUM-100
SUMMONS FOR COURT USE ONLY
(CITACION JUDICIAL) (SOLO PARA USO DE LA CORTE) #LECTRONICALLY FILED
NOTICE TO DEFENDANT: Superior Court of California (AVISO AL DEMANDADO): County of Santa Barbara COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, a political subdivision of the State Darrel E. Parker, Executive Officer of California, acting by and through its BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; 6/19/2018 3:26 PM
YOU ARE BEING SUED BY PLAINTIFF: By: Terri Chavez, Deputy
(LO ESTÁ DEMANDANDO EL DEMANDANTE):
BUENA VISTA 796, LLC, a California limited liability company

NOTICEI You have been sued. The court may decide egalnst you withoul your being heard unless you respond within 30 days. Read the informatlon below. You have 30 CALENDAR DAYS after this summons and legal papers are served on you to flle a written response at this court and have a copy served on the plaintif. A tetter or phone call will not protect you. Your written response must be in proper legal form if you want the court lo hear your case, There may be a court form that you can use for your response. You can find these court forms and more information at the Callfornia Couris Online Self-Help Center (www.courtinfo.ca.gov/selfhelp), your county law library, or the courthouse nearest you. If you cannot pay the filing fee, ask the court clerk for fee waiver form. If you do not flle your response on tIme, you may lose the case by default, and your wages, money, and property may be taken without further warning from the courl. There are olher tegal requirements. You may want to calt an attorney right away. If you do not know an altorney, you may want to call an atlorney roferral sorvice. If you cannot afford an attorney, you may be eligible for free legal services from a nonprofit legal services program. You can locafe these nonprofil groups at the Callfornia Legal Services Wob site (www.lawhelpcalifornia.org), the California Courts Online Self-Help Center (www.courtinfo.ca.gov/selihelp), or by contacting your local court or counly bar assoclation. NOTE: The court has a statulory llen for walved fees and costs on any settlement or arbitration award of $10,000 or more in a clvil case. The court's llen must be paid before the court will dismiss the case. [AVISOI Lo han demandado. Si no responde dentro de 30 días, la corte puede decidir en su contra sin escuchar su versión. Lea la información a continuación.
Tiene 30 DÍAS DE CALENDARIO después de que le reguen esta citación y papeles legales pare presentar una respuesta por escrito en esta corto y hacor que se entregue una copla al demandante. Una carta o una llamada telefónica no lo protegen. Su respuesta por escrito tiene que estar en formato legal correcto si desea que procoson su caso en la corte. Es posible que haya un formulario que ustad pueda usar para su respuesta. Puede ancontrar estos formularios de la corte y más Información en el Contro de Ayuda de las Cortes de California (www.sucorte.ca.gov), en la biblioteca de leyes de su condado o en ta corta que le quede más cerca. Si no puede pagar la cuola de prosentación, pida al secretario de le corte que le dó un formulado de exención de pago de cuotas, Si no presenta su respuesta a tiempo, puede perder I caso por incumplimiento y la corte le podrá quitar su sueldo, dinero y bienes sin más advertencla. Hay otros requisitos legales. Es recomendable que llame a un abogado inmediatamente. Sl no conoce a un abogado, puede llamar a un servicio de remisión a abogados. Si no puede pagar a un abogado, es posible que cumpla con los requisitos para oblener servicios legales gratuitos de un programa de servicios legales sin tines de lucro. Puede encontrar estos grupos sin tines de lucro en el sitlo web de Calfomia Legal Services, www.lawhelpcalifornia.org), en el Centro de Ayuda de las Cortes de California, (www.sucorte.ca.gov) o ponléndose en contacto con la corte o el coleglo de abogados locales. AVISO: Por ley, la corte tlene derecho a reclamar las cuolas y los costos exentos por imponer un gravamen sobre cualquler recuperación de $10,000 ó más de valor recibida mediante un acuerdo o una conceslón de arbitraje en un caso de derecho civil. Tiene que pagar el gravamen de la corte antes de que la corte pueda desechar el caso.
The name and address of the court is: CASE NUMBER:
(El nombre y dirección de la corte es): (Nómero lei Caso):

SANTA BARBARA SUPERIOR COURT 18CV03088
1100 Anacapa Street, Santa Barbara, CA 93101
The name, address, and telephone number of plalntiff's attorney, or plaintiff without an attorney, ls: (El nombre, ta dirección y ei número de teléfono del abogado del demandante, o del demandante que no tione abogado, es): Neal Maguire, Joshua Hopstone, Ferguson Case Orr Paterson LLP, 1050 S. Kimball Rd., Ventura, CA 93004

DATE: Clerk, by /s/ Terri Chavez Deputy (Fecha) 6/19/2018
(Secretario). (For proof of service of this summons, use Proof of Service of Summons (form POS-010).) (Adjunto)

(Pora prueba de entrega de esta citatión use el formulario Proof of Service of Summons, (POS-010)).
{SEAL) NOTICE TO THE PERSON SERVED: You are served
AEALORCR 1. as an individual defendant.
2. as the person sued under the flctitious name of (specify):

3. - on behalf of (specify):
under: E CCP 416.10 (corporation)
CCP 416.20 (defunct corporatlon) CCP 416.60 (minor)
CCP 416.40 (association or partnership) CCP 416.70 (conservatee)
CCP 416.90 (authorized person)
other (specify): 4. by personal dellvery on (date):
Form Adopled for Mandalory Use Pagu 1 of 1
Judicial Councl of Calfornia SUMMONS Code of CMI Procedure $5 412.20, 465
SUM-100 (Rev. July 1, 2009) www.courtinfo.co.gov

SUM-200(A)
SHORT TITLE: CASE NUMBER:

BUENA VISTA 796, LLC v. COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, et al, 18CV03088

INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
This form may be used as an atlachment to any summons If space does not permit the listing of all parties on the summons. If this attachment is used, insert the following statement In the plaintiff or defendant box on the summons: "Additional Partles Attachment form is atlached."

List additional parties (Chock only one box. Use a separate page for each type of party.):
Plaintiff x Defendant - Cross-Complainant Cross-Defendant
and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,

REAL PARTIES IN INTEREST:

ERRETT VAN NICE, AS TRUSTEE OF THE LIGHTHOUSE TRUST U/T/A DATED AS OF JULY 11, 2016; AND ROES 1 through 100, inclusive,

Page of

Foim Adopted for Mandatory Use Page 1 of i
Judicial Councii of California 8UM-200(A) [Rev. January 1 2007| ADDITIONAL PARTIES ATTACHMENT
Attachment to Summons
LexisNexis® Antomated California Judicial Council Forms

CM-010
ANRNY NRARREEBKESSE  HNB ST ONNE RESESNI 273719) FOR COURT USE ONLY

FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP 1050 South Kimball Road Ventura, CA 93004 ELECTRONICALLY FILED
TELEPHONE NO.: (805) 659-6800 FAX NO.: (805) 659-6818 Superior Court of California
ATTORNEY FOR (Nome): Petitioner BUENA VISTA 796, LLC County of Santa Barbara
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA STREET ADDRESS: 1100 Anacapa Street Darrel E. Parker, Executive Officer
MAILING ADDRESS: P.O. Box 21107 6/19/2018 3:26 PM
CITY AND ZIP CODE: Santa Barbara, CA 93121 By: Terri Chavez, Deputy
BRANCH NAME; South County
CASE NAME:
BUENA VISTA 796, LLC v. COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, et al.
CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET CASE NUMBER:
V Unlimited M Limited Complex Case Designation
M Countor 3 Joinder 18CV03088
(Amount (Amount demanded demanded is Filed with first appearance by defendant JUDGE:

exceeds $25,000) $25,000 or less) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.402) DEPT:
Items 1-6 below must be completed (see instructions on page 2)
Check one box below for the case type that best describes this case:
Auto Tort Contract Provisionally Complex Civil Litigation
Auto (22) Breach of contract/warranty (06) (Cal. Rules of Court, rules 3.400-3.403)
Uninsured motorisi (48) Rule 3.740 collectlons (09) Antilrust/Trade regulatlon (03)
Other PI/PD/WD (Personal Injury/Property Other collections (09) Construction defect (10)
Damago/Wrongful Death) Tort
Aebestos (04) Insurance coverage (18) Mass lort (40)

Product Ilability (24) Other contract (37) Securilles Iitigation (28)
Real Property
Medical malpraclce (45) _ Environmental/Toxio tort (30)
Eminent domaln/Inverse
Other PIPD/WD (23) condemnalion (14) Insurance coverage clalms arising from the above Ilsted provisionally complex case
Non-PI/PD/WD (Other) Tort H Wrongful eviction (33) types (41)
Business tor/unfalr business practice (07) Other real property (26) Enforcomont of Judgment
Civil rights (08) Unlawful Dotainor Enforcement of judgment (20)
Defamation (13) Commercial (31) Miscollaneous Civil Complaint
Fraud (16) Residential (32) RICO (27) Intellectual property (19) Drugs (38)
Judicial Revlew Other complalnt (not specified above) (42) Professional nogligence (25)
Other non-PI/PDMD tort (35) Asset forfeiture (06) Miscellaneous Civil Petition

Employment Petition re: arbltration award (11) Partnership and corporale governance (21)
Wrongful termination (36) Writ of mandate (02) Other petition (not specitled above) (43)
Other employment (15) Other judiclal review (39)
2. This case is M is not complex under rule 3,400 of the California Rules of Court. If the case is complex, mark the factors requiring exceptional judicial management:
a. Large number of separately represented parties d. Large number of witnesses
b. Extensive motion practce raising difficult or novel e. Coordination with related actions pending in one or more courts
issues that will be time-consuming to resolve C. Substantial amount of documentary evidence in other counties, slates, or countries, or in a or federal court
f. Substantial postjudgment Judicial supervision 3. Remedies sought (check all that apply): a.] monetary b.] nonmonetary; declaratory or inlunctive relief c. lpunitive 4. Number of causes of action (speoify): One 5. This case is M is not a class action sult.
6. If there are any known related cases, file and serve a notice of related case. (You may, form CM-015.)
Date: June 19, 2018 Neal P, Maguire
(TYPE OR PRINT NAME)
NOTICE (SIGNATURE OF PARTY OR ATTORNEY FOR PARTY)
Plaintiff must file this cover sheet with the first paper filed In the actlon or proceeding (except small clalms cases or cases filed under the Probate Code, Family Code, or Welfare and Institutions Code). (Cal. Rules of Court, ruie 3.220.) Failure to file may result in sanctions.
File this cover sheet in addition to any cover sheet required by local court rule • If this case is complex under rule 3,400 et seq. of of the California Rules of Court, you must serve a copy of this cover sheet on all to other parties to the action or proceeding. Unless this is a collections case under rule 3.740 or a complex case, this cover sheet will be used for statistical purposes only. Page 1 of 2|
Form Adoptad for Mandalory Use Judicial Council of California CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET Cal. Rules of Courl, rules 2.30, 3.220, 3.400-3.403, 3.740;
CM-010 |Rov. July 1, 2007) Cal. Stapdards of Juóicial Administralion, sid. 3.10
www.courtinfo.ca.gov

INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO COMPLETE THE COVER SHEET CM-010

To Plaintiffs and Others Flling First Papers. If you are filing a first paper (for example, a complaint) in a civil case, you must complete and file, along with your first paper, the Clvil Case Cover Sheet contained on page 1. This information wil) be used to compile statistics about the types and numbers of cases filed. You must complete items through 6 on the sheet. In item 1, you must check one box for the case type that best describes the case. If the case fits both a goneral and a more specific type of case listed in item 1, check the more specific one. If the caso has multiple causes of action, check the box that best indicates the primary cause of action. To assist you in completing the sheet, examples of the cases that belong under each case type in item 1 are provided below. A cover sheet must be filed only with your initial paper. Failure to file a cover sheet with the fIrst paper filed in a civil case may subject a party, its counsel, or both to sanctions under rules 2.30 and 3.220 of the California Rules of Court,
To Parties in Rule 3.740 Collectione Cases. A "collections case" under rule 3.740 ls defined as an action for recovery of money owed in a sum stated to be certain that is not more than $25,000, exclusive of interest and attorney's fees, arising from a transaction in which property, services, or money was acquired on credit. A collections case does not include an action seeking the following: (1) tort damages, (2) punitive damages, (3) recovery of real property, (4) recovery of personal property, or (5) a prejudgment writ of attachment. The identification of a case a as a rule 3.740 collections case on this form means that it will be exempt from the general time-for-service requirements and case management rules, unless a defendant files a responsive pleading. A rule 3.740 collections case will be subject to the requirements for service and obtaining a judgment in rule 3.740.
To Parties in Complex Cases. In complex cases only, parties must also use the Civil Case Cover Shoet to designate whether the case is complex. If a plaintiff believes the case is complex under rule 3.400 of the California Rules of Court, this must be indicaled by of completing the appropriate boxes in Items and 2. If a plalntiff designates a case as complex, the cover sheel must be served with the complaint on all parties to the action. A defendant may file and serve no later than the time of its first appearance a joinder in the plaintiffs designation, a counter-designation that the case ls not complex, or, if the plalntiff has made no designation, a designation that the case is complex. CASE TYPES AND EXAMPLES
Auto Tort Contract Provisionally Complex Civil Litigation (Cal.
Auto (22)--Personal Injury/Proporty Breach of Contract/Warranty (06)
Damage/Wrongful Death Breach of Renlal/Lease Rules of Court Rules 3.400-3.403)
Contract (not unlawful detainer Antitrust/Trade Regulation (03)
Uninsured Motorist (46) (il the Construction Defect (10)
case involves an uninsured or wrongful eviction) Contract/Warranty Breach-Seller Claims involving Mass Tort (40)
motorist claim subject to Securilles Liligation (28)
arbitration, chack this lem Plaintlff (not fraud or negligence) Environmental/Toxic Tort (30)
instead of Auto) Negligent Breach of Contract/ Insurance Coverage Clalms
Other PI/PD/WD (Personal Injury! Warranty
Proporty Damage/Wrongful Death) Other Breach of Contract/Warranty (arising from provisionally complex case type Iisted above) (41)
Tort Collections {e.g., money owed, open Enforcement of Judgment
Asbestos (04) book accounts) (09)
Asbostos Property Damage Collection Case-Seller Plaintiff Enforcement of Judgment (20) Abstract of Judgment (Out of
Ashestos Personal Injury/ Other Promissory Note/Collections County)
Wrongful Death Case Insurance Coverage (not provisionalty Confession of Judgment (non-
Product Liability (not asbestos or domestic relations)
toxic/environmental) (24) complex) (18)
Medical Malpractice (45) Auto Subrogation Sister State Judgment

Other Coverage Administrative Agency Award
Medical Malpractice- (not unpaid taxes)
Physicians & Surgeons Other Contract (37) Petition/Certification of Entry of
Other Professional Health Care Contractual Fraud Judgment on Unpaid Taxes
Malpraciice Other Enforcement of Judgment Other PI/PD/WO (23) Other Contract Dispule
Premises Liability (e.g., silp Real Proporty Case
Eminent Domain/Inverse Miscellaneous Civil Complaint
and fall) Condemnatlon (14) RICO (27)
inlentional Bodily Injury/PDAWD (e.g., assault, vandalism) Wrongful Eviclion (33) Other Complaint (not specified
Other Real Property (e.g., quiet tille) (26) above) (42)
Intentional Infliction of Writ of Possession of Real Property Declaratory Rellef Only
Emotional Disiress Mortgage Foreclosure Injunctivo Reliet Only (non-
Negligent Infliction of Quiei Title harassment)
Emotlonal Distrees
Other PI/PD/WD Other Real Property (not eminent Mechanics Lien
domain, landlord/tenant, or Other Commerclal Complaint
Non-PU/PD/WD (Other) Tort foreclosure) Case (non-fort/on-complex)
Business Tort/Unfair Business Unlawful Dotalner Olher Civil Complaint
Practice (07) Commercial (31) (non-tort/on-complex)
Clvil Rights (e.g., discrimination, Miscellanoous Clvll Petition
lalse arrest) (not clvil Residential (32)
harassment) (08) Drugs (38) (If the case involves Illegal Partnership and Corporate

Defamalion (e.g., slander, lbel) drugs, check this Item; otherwise, Governance (21)
Other Petition (not specilled
(13) report as Commercial or Residential)
Fraud (16) Judicial Revlew abovo) (43) Civil Harassmeni
Intellectual Property (19) Assel Forfelture (05) Workplace Vloience
Professional Negligence (25) Petition Re: Arbitration Award (11) Elder/Dependent Aduit
Legal Malpraclice Writ of Mandale (02) Wril-Administratlve Mandamus Abuse
Other Professional Malpracilce Wrlt-Mandamus on Limited Court Election Contest
(not medical or legal) Petition for Name Change
Olher Non-PM/PD/VD Tort (35) Case Matter Petitlon for Relief From Late
Employmont Wrlt-Other Limited Court Case Claim
Wrongful Termination (36) Review
Other Judiclal Review (39) Other Civil Petition
Other Employment (15) Review of Health Öfficer Order
Notice of Appeal-Labor
CM-010 |Rev. July 1, 2007] Commissioner Appeals
CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET Page 2 of 2

ELECTRONICALLY FILED
Superior Court of California 1 Neal P. Maguire (SBN 234531) Joshua S. Hopstone (SBN 273719) County of Santa Barbara PERGUSON CASE ORK FATERSON LLP Darrel E. Parker, Executive Officer
1050 South Kimball Road 6/19/2018 3:26 PM
3 Ventura, CA 93004 By: Terri Chavez, Deputy
Telephone: (805) 659-6800
4 Facsimile: (805) 659-6818 Email: nmaguire@fcoplaw.com
Un jhopstone@fcoplaw.com

6 Attorneys for Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC
7

8 SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

10

11 BUENA VISTA 796, LLC, a California Case No.

12 limited liability company, Filed: 18CV03088

Petitioner, NOTICE OF ELECTION TO PREPARE 13 RECORD OF ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS 14 V.

15 COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, a [California Environmental Quality Act, Cal.
political subdivision of the State of Pub. Resourçes Code, § 21000 et seq.]
16 California, acting by and through its
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; and DOES 17 through 100, inclusive, [Filed concurrently with Verified Petition for
18 Respondents, Writ of Mandate; Petitioner's Request for Hearing] 19
ERRETT VAN NICE, AS TRUSTEE OF 20|| THE LIGHTHOUSE TRUST U/T/A
21 DATED AS OF JULY 11, 2016; and ROES through 100, inclusive,
22 Real Parties in Interest.
23

24

25

26

27

28

9
1708870 NOTICE OF ELECTION TO PREPARE RECORD OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS

1 TO THE COURT, ALL PARTIES, AND THEIR COUNSEL OF RECORD:

2 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that, pursuant to California Public Resources Code section

3 21667.6, subdivision (b)(2), Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC (*Petitioner"), hereby elects to

4 undertake preparation of the record of administrative proceedings relating to this action, subject to

5 certification of its accuracy by Respondent, County of Santa Barbara ("Respondent"). The record

6 of proceedings will be prepared at Petitioner's own cost and will include, without limitation, all

7 those items identified in Public Resources Code section 21167.6, subdivision (e). Petitioner will

8 prepare the record of proceedings in accordance with the California Rules of Court, including rule

9 3.2205.

10

FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP 11 Date: June 19, 2018
1975 RUQUIRO WO0EA 3 stzaps Poo POSIMOl 10SZ JTTNOSHAIVA MNO ISVO NOSNDNZA 12 sbs sbee By:
Neal P. Maguire | úbshua S. Hopstone 13

Attorneys for Petitioner,
Buena Vista 796, LLC 14

+0056 vOo cIIeA 3050 Sout. Kimm 1 Road 15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

2
NOTICE OF ELECTION TO PREPARE RECORD OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 1708870

ELECTRONICALLY FILED
Superior Court of California

1 Neal P. Maguire (SBN 234531) County of Santa Barbara Darrel E. Parker, Executive Officer
Joshua S. Hopstone (SBN 273719)
2 FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP 6/19/2018 3:26 PM
1050 South Kimball Road By: Terri Chavez, Deputy
3 Ventura, CA 93004 Telephone: (805) 659-6800
4 Facsimile: (805) 659-6818
Email: nmaguire@fcoplaw.com
5 jhopstone@fcoplaw.com

6 Attorneys for Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC
7

8 SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

10

11 BUENA VISTA 796, LLC, a California Case No, 18CV03088

12 limited liability company, Filed:

13 Petitioner, PETITIONER'S REQUEST FOR HEARING

14 V. [California Environmental Quality Act, Cal.
Pub. Resources Code, § 21000 et seq.]
15 COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, a
political subdivision of the State of 16 California, acting by and through its BOARD OF SUPERVISORS; and DOES 1 [Filed concurrently with Verified Petition for
17|| through 100, inclusive, Writ of Mandate; Notice of Election to Prepare Record of Administrative Proceedings]
18 Respondents,
19
ERRETT VAN NICE, AS TRUSTEE OF 20 THE LIGHTHOUSE TRUST U/T/A

21 DATED AS OF JULY 11, 2016; and ROES
1 through 100, inclusive,
22 Real Parties in Interest.

23

24

25

26

27

28

1708971 TITIONER'S REQUEST FOR HEARING

1 TO THE COURT, ALL PARTIES, AND THEIR COUNSEL OF RECORD:

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that, pursuant to California Public Resources Code section 2

3 21667.4, subdivision (a), and CEQA Guidelines section 15232, Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC

4 (*Petitioner") requests a hearing on its concurrently-filed Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate.

5 Petitioner hereby waives the scheduling requirements of Public Resources Code section 21667.4,

6 subdivision (c) until the certification of the record of proceedings in this matter.

FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP 7

8 Date: June 19, 2018

MeIM Neal P. Maguiré | Joshua S. Hopstone 9

Attorneys for Petitioner, Buena Vista 796, LLC 10

11
19ET6 ESOEO StzRgnS paong a250e01 10SZ JTTNOSHaLYd ANO ISVO NOSNDUZS 12

13

14

+0056 UUTCO LLDA 15 pooy pequaryi apnos osot 16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

2 28

PETITIONER'S REQUEST FOR HEARING 1708971

POS-010
ATTORNEY OR PARTY WITHOUT ATTORNEY (Name, State Bar number, and address): Neal P. Maguire (SBN 234531) Joshua S. Hopstone (SBN 273719) FOR COURT USE ONLY

FERGUSON CASE ORR PATERSON LLP
1050 South Kimball Road, Ventura, CA 93004 TELEPHONE NO.: (805) 659-6800 FAX NO. (Optional): (805) 659-6818 E-MAIL ADDRESS (Optionel): nmaguire@fcoplaw.com, jhopstone@fcoplaw.com ATTORNEY FOR (Namo): Petitioner Buena Vista 796, LLC SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA STREET ADDRESS: 1100 Anacapa Street MAILING ADDRESS: P.O. Box 21107
CITY AND ZIP CODE: Santa Barbara, CA 93121
BRANCH NAME: South County
PLAINTIFF/PETITIONER: BUENA VISTA 796, LLC CASE NUMBER:

DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT: COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, et al. 18CV03088

Ref. No. or Flle No.:
PROOF OF SERVICE OF SUMMONS

(Separate proof of service is required for each party served.)
1. At the time of service I was at least 18 years of age and not a party to this action. 2. 1 served copies of:
a, x. summons
b. complaint

C. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) package
d. Civil Case Cover Sheet (served in complex cases only)
e. cross-complaint
f. other (specify documents): (1) Petitioner's Request for Hearing, (2) Notice of Election to Prepare

3. Record of Administrative Proceedings a. Party served (specify name of party as shown on documents served):
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

b. Person (other than the party in item 3a) served on behalf of an entity or as an authorized agent (and not a person under item 5b on whom substituted service was made) (specify name and relationship to the party named in item 3a):

4. Address where the party was served: 1300 "I" Street, Sacramento, CA 95814-2919

5. l served the party (check proper box)

a. by personal service. I personally delivered the documents listed in item 2 to the party or person authorized to
receive service of process for the party (1) on (date): (2) at (time):
b. by substituted service. On (date): at (time): I left the documents listed in item 2 with or
in the presence of (name and title or relationship to person indicated in item 3):

(1) (business) a person at least 18 years of age apparently in charge at the office or usual place of business of the person to be to served. I informed him or her of the general nature of the papers.
(2) (home) a competent member of the household (at least 18 years of age) at the dwelling house or usual of place of abode of the party. I informed him or her of the general nature of the papers.
(3) (physical address unknown) a person at least 18 years of age apparently in charge at the usual mailing address of the person to be served, other than a United States Postal Service post office box. I informed
him or her of the general nature of the papers.
(4) thereafter mailed (by first-class, postage prepaid) copies of the documents to the person to be served at the place where the copies were left (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20). I mailed the documents on
(date): from (city): or
(5) a declaration of mailing is attached.
I attach a declaration of diligence stating actions taken first to attempt personal service.
Page 1 of 2
Form Adopted for Mandatory Use Judicial Council of California PROOF OF SERVICE OF SUMMONS Code of Clvll Procodure, § 417.10
POS-010 [Rev. January 1, 2007] LexisNexis® Automated California Judicial Council Forms

PLAINTIFF/PETITIONER: BUENA VISTA 796, LLC CASE NUMBER:

DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT: COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA, et al. 18CV03088

5. C. by mail and acknowledgment of receipt of service. I mailed the documents in listed in item 2 to the party, to the
address shown in item 4, by first-class mail, postage prepaid,
(1) on (date): (2) from (city):
(3) with two copies of the Notice and Acknowledgment of Receipt and a postage-paid return envelope addressed
to me. (Attach completed Notice and Acknowledgement of Receipt.) (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30.)
(4) to an address outside California with return receipt requested. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.40.)

d. Lx by other means (specify means of service and authorizing code section): Federal Express

Additional page describing service is attached.
6. The "Notice to the Person Served" (on the summons) was completed as follows:
a. as an individual defendant.
b. as the person sued under the fictitious name of (specify):
C. as occupant. d. X On behalf of (specify): OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL under the following Code of Civil Procedure section:
00 416.10 (corporation) 415.95 (business organization, form unknown)
416.20 (defunct corporation) - 416.30 (joint stock company/association) 416.60 (minor)
- 416.40 (association or partnership) 416.70 (ward or conservatee)
416.90 (authorized person)
X 416.50 (public entity) 415.46 (occupant) 5 other: 7. Person who served papers
a. Name: Tina Mercado
b. Address: 1050 South Kimball Road, Ventura, CA 93004
c. Telephone number: (805) 659-6800
d. The fee for service was: $ 0.00

e. 1 am:

(1) not a registered California process server. (2) exempt from registration under Business and Professions Code section 22350(b).
(3) a registered California process server:
(i) - owner employee independent contractor.
(ii) Registration No.:
(iii) County:

8 I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.

or

9 I am a California sheriff or marshal and I certify that the foregoing is true and correct. is
Date: June 25, 2018

Tina Mercado
(NAME OF PERSON WHO SERVED PAPERS/SHERIFF OR MARSHAL) (SIGNATURE)

Page 2 of 2 POS-010 [Rev. January 1, 2007] PROOF OF SERVICE OF SUMMONS
LexisNexis® Automated California Judicial Council Forms

MECEIVEN
JUN 2 0 2018
BY:_______