Marc Bruno, in pro per

2 15 Nobles Alley

3 San Francisco, CA 94133

4 415-434-1528

5

6 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

7 COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO

8 UNLIMITED JURISDICTION

9

10 (Case No.: CPF-18-516354
MARC BRUNO, an individual, and 11 Representative of SAVE NORTH BEACH, a non-profit unincorporated association, NOTICE TO ATTORNEY
12
Petitioners and Plaintiffs, GENERAL - VERIFIED PETITION

13 VS. FOR WRIT OF ADMINISTRATIVE MANDAMUS UNDER THE
14 CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL

15 FRANCISCO; BOARD OF SUPERVISORS QUALITY ACT (CEQA) and FOR THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN REQUEST for TEMPORARY 16 FRANCISCO; SAN FRANCISCO PLANNING DEPARTMENT: SAN RESTRAINING ORDER

17 FRANCISCO RECREATION & PLANNING DEPARTMENT and DOES (California Environmental Quality Act,
18 THROUGH XX, INCLUSIVE Pub. Resources Code $ 21167.7;

19 Defendants. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 388)

20 Dept: CEQA Case, Dept. 503

21 Date Action Filed: September 25, 2018

22

23

24

25
26 To the Attorney General of the State of California:

27 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, pursuant to Public Resources Code § 21167.7 and Code of Civil

28 Procedure § 388, that on December 14, 2017 Petitioners and Plaintiffs MARC BRUNO, an

NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL - PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMDY INITIACTIO-

individual, and SAVE NORTH BEACH, an unincorporated non-profit association, filed a

2 Verified Petition for Writ of Administrative Mandamus and Request for Temporary Restraining

3 Order (*Petition") against Defendants CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO, a

4 municipal corporation; BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN

5 FRANCISCO, governing body of the City and County of San Francisco; SAN FRANCISCO

6 PLANNING DEPARTMENT, a public entity; SAN FRANCISCO RECREATION and PARKS
DEPARTMENT, a public entity, and DOES I THROUGH XX, Defendants currently unknown 7
to Plaintiff-Petitioners.
8

9

10 The Petition alleges, inter alia, violations of the California Environmental Quality Act
11 ("CEQA"), Public Resources Code $ 21000 et seq., in connection with the unlawful
12| determination by the San Francisco Planning Department and the City and County of San

13 Francisco that the attached appeal filed on June 15, 2018 was "untimely," because, according to

14 the Chief Environmental Officer for the Planning Department, said Appeal was "too early." A

15 copy of that Appeal and of our subsequent Petition to overturn the arbitrary decision that the

16 Appeal was "untimely" is attached to this Notice.
Dated: September 25, 2018 17

18 12

19 Mare Bruno, in pro po

20 ou'.4, Lols
~ 8 8 24

25

26

27

28

2
NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL- PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

CPF-18-516354

BY 8 MARK BRUNO VS. CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO ET AL (CEQA Case) (Unlimited)
NOTICE TO PLAINTIFF

*o. 220 59 A Case Management Conference is set for:
DEC 2018 DATE: 2018 OCT -3 PM 3: D5

ECEIVED TIME: 1:30PM SHPERSUSORS PLACE: Department 503
400 McAlllater Street
San Francisco, CA 94102-3680
All parties must appoar and comply with California Rules of Court 3.110. At the initial case managemont conference, the parties should be propared to discuss all issues pertinent to the expeditious and least expansive resolution of the case, including but not limitod to the preparation and certification of the acministrative record and a briofing and hearing/trial schedule for all claims alleged by the parties.
Pursuant to Local Rule 6.11(D), parties may, but are not required to, fle a case management statement in advance of the initial case management conference. k the event that a party wishes to file a case management statement, the statement noed not be in any particular form, but must be filed and a courtesy copy delivered to the CEQA Department (503) at least five court days prior to the conference.

Plaintiff must serve a copy of this notice upon each party to this action with the
summons and complaint. Proof of service subsequently filed with this court shall so state. A courtesy copy must also be delivered to the CEQA Department (503) prior to

Prior to the initial case managoment conference, the CEQA casa settiomont manager wifl the hearing date.

contact the partles to arrange for a settlement conference. If any party wishos to arrange for a settlement conforence before being contacted by the CEQA case settiement managor, that party may initlate contact with the CEQA case settiement manager. The name and contact information of the CEQA case settlement manager are posted on the "CEQA Department lnk on the court's website (www.sfsupariorcourt.org).

RECEIVED
Name (print): *& Hd E-130 81
Office:: OIHOS

Date:

V Marc Bruno, in pro per 15 Nobles Alley San Francisco, CA 94133 415-434-1528 A A

A9 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA LO
COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO 4O
*yC
UNLIMITED JURISDICTION ON

MARC BRUNO, an individual, and
Representative of SAVE NORTH BEACH, a Case No. CPF-18-5163c.
non-profit unincorporated association, 140.516354
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF
Petitioners and Plaintiffs, ADMINISTRATIVE MANDAMUS UNDER THE
VS. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN (CEQA) and TEMPORARY RESTRAINING
FRANCISCO; BOARD OF SUPERVISORS ORDER
FOR THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCO; SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING DEPARTMENT; SAN Hearing Date:
FRANCISCO RECREATION & PLANNING Hearing Judge:
DEPARTMENT and DOES I THROUGH XX, Time:
INCLUSIVE Place: Dept. 503

Defendants. Date Action Filed: September 25, 2017
Trial Date:

1. Petitioner Plaintiff Marc Bruno, an individual residing in San Francisco,
and Save North Beach, a non-profit association, hereby petition this Court
under California Code of Civil Procedure ("CCP") Section 1094.5 for
issuance of a Writ of Administrative Mandamus to Respondent City and
County of an Francisco ("City" or "CCSF"), Respondent Board of
Supervisors for the City and County of San Francisco ("Board"), et al. .

1

-2-

2. Petitioners intend to show that the San Francisco Administrative Code,
Respondent - Defendants' reports, plans, investigations and statements to the
Board of Supervisors and to the Board of Appeals conclusively prove that the
Planning Department Determination of June 29, 2018, followed by the Letter of
Determination of "Untimeliness" by Angela Calvillo, the Clerk f the San
Francisco Board of Supervisors, was an arbitrary and capricious decision that
irreparably harmed the intended appeal of a Planning Department decision made
by the Historic Preservation Commission on May, 16, 2018.

3. Plaintiffs respectfully asks the court to take judicial notice of Ms. Calvillo's
reasoning for the determination of "Untimeliness;" namely that the appeal by
plaintiffs was too early, not that it was too late. The appeal in question, the appeal
that was determined to be "untimely" because too early, is attached. It was filed on

June 15, 2018.

4. Petitioners allege that the most rudimentary public disclosure requirements

under CEQA and the very basis for permitting appeals of Planning Department

2

determinations will be undermined if the court permits the City and County to
arbitrarily decide when an "approval action date" occurs.

5. By permitting the Planning Department Senior Planning Officer to determine

such date in direct contradiction of the San Francisco Administrative Code is to

allow such officer to act outside the purview of his/her office and to enact

legislatively a policy matter that was specifically intended to be determined by the
Board of Supervisors under the City Charter and the Administrative Code.

PARTIES

6. Petitioner Marc Bruno, an individual citizen residing in San Francisco, has
lived at his current address in North Beach since April, 1986. He is a community

organizer who regularly works with the homeless and poor.

7. Petitioner Save North Beach is a non-profit association for which corporate

501(c)(4) status is pending. Members of the organization live in, work in, own
property in and/or own a business or business-es in the Telegraph Hill North

Beach Special Use District and San Francisco Supervisorial District 3. The

organization is dedicated to preserving the cultural wealth and environmental

integrity of the neighborhood by serving the poorest of the poor and by serving

3

C

those who face eviction from their apartments and homes. The organization also
a serves as a policy forum in favor of environmental justice.

8. The CCSF, at all times pertinent herein, was and is a municipal corporation

organized and existing under the laws of the State of California and the municipal

charter.

9. The Board of Supervisors, at all times pertinent herein, was and is now a legally
constituted body of the CCSF organized under Article 2 of the City Charter.

Pursuant to § 21151(c) of the Public Resources Code, CEQA Guidelines

§§15061(e) and 15704(f), the Board as the duly decision making body and acting

in quasi-judicial capacity, is responsible for hearing and acting on appeals

challenging the issuance of an approved Categorical Exemption.

10. The San Francisco Planning Department and the San Francisco Recreation and

Planning Department were and are now legally constituted bodies of the CCSF

duly organized under the City Charter.

11. Petitioner is ignorant of the true names and capacities of DOES I through XX,
inclusive, and of the true names and capacities of ROES I through XX, inclusive,
and therefore sues said Respondents by such fictitious names. Petitioner will
amend this Petition to allege their true names and capacities when ascertained.

4

JURISDICTION
12. This court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to §1094.5 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure.

13. Venue is proper because the Respondents and the proposed Project Site are
located in the City and County of San Francisco.

STANDING
14. Petitioner Plaintiff Marc Bruno, an individual citizen residing in San
Francisco, is a "person" entitled to file an action under CEQA. "Person" includes
any person, firm, association, organization, partnership, business, trust,
corporation, limited liability company. (CEQA Guidelines 8 15376).

15. Petitioner Save North Beach, a non-profit association doing business in North
Beach, is a "person" entitled to file an action under CEQA. "Person" includes any
person, firm, association, organization, partnership, business, trust, corporation,
limited liability company. (CEQA Guidelines § 15376).

16. There is an accepted public policy in this state, encouraged by elected
officials, administrative agencies and the courts "guaranteeing citizens the
opportunity to ensure that no governmental body impairs or defeats the purpose of
legislation establishing a public right." (Green V. Obledo (1981) 29 Cal.3d 126,
144.)

5

17. The "basic purposes of CEQA" include the following, according to CEQA
Guidelines §15002:

A. Inform government decision-makers and the public about the potential,
significant environmental effects of proposed activities.
B. Identify the ways environmental damage can be avoided or reduced.
C. Prevent significant, avoidable damage to the environment by requiring changes
in projects through the use of alternatives or mitigation measures when the
governmental agency finds the changes to be feasible.
D. Disclose to the public the reasons why a governmental agency approved a
project in the manner the agency chose if significant environmental effects are
involved.

18. The question in this action is one of public right and sound public policy.
19. Petitioners are an interested self-identified group of citizens and an individual
citizen committed to having public laws including CEQA properly executed.

20. Petitioners are interested as an association of citizens and taxpayers, and as an
individual citizen and taxpayer, in having all public resources including those
designated for this project properly used and not wasted.

21. Petitioners have a genuine and continuing interest in and concern for the
environment, including the effect on the environment of governmental activities
such as those from which Petitioners seek relief in this action.

6

• 22. Petitioner Plaintiff Marc Bruno has standing as an individual to bring this
action, because the interests of the Petitioner are adversely affected by the
governmental decisions and actions from which relief is requested.

23. Prosecution of this action as a citizen's suit by Petitioner does not conflict with
other competing legislative or public policies.

24. Petitioners complied with Public Resource Code §§ 21177(a) and (b) by filing
the Objections herein attached. (Exhibit B)

25. Based on the foregoing, Petitioners have standing.

STATEMENT OF FACTS

26. As consequence of a bond measure in 2012, the Recreation and Park
Department committed itself to a water conservation project in Washington
Square Park in 2017 - 2018.

27. As a result of the failure of Recreation and Park to adequately reach out
to community groups until January, 2018, the planned project was delayed
for up to 18 months, requiring permission from the Recreation and Park
Commission to alter the original Memorandum of Understanding with the
San Francisco a Public Utilities Commission.

28 As a further consequence of the delay in reaching out to neighborhood
groups to review the proposed water conservation project in Washington
Square, the first public review of the project in a public forum duly noticed
was before the Historic Preservation Commission on May 16, 2018.

7

29. As this hearing on May 16, 2018 was the first public hearing following
upon the determination that the Planning Department had determined the
project to be "exempt from environmental review," the approval action date,
as defined in the Administrative Code was May 16, 2018; to wit:
"San Francisco Administrative Code, Section 31.04
(h) Definitions, "Approval Action" means:

(1) For a private project seeking an entitlement from the City and
determined to be exempt from CEQA:
(A) The first approval of the project in reliance on the exemption by the City
Planning Commission following a noticed public hearing, including, without
limitation, a discretionary review hearing as provided for in Planning Code
Section 311 or Section 312, or, if no such hearing is required, either:
(B) The first approval of the project in reliance on the exemption by another
City commission, board or official following a noticed public hearing
granting an Entitlement of Use for the Whole of the Project; or
(C) The issuance of the Building Permit or other Entitlement of Use for the
Whole of the Project in reliance on the exemption without a noticed public
hearing.

(2) For all other projects determined to be exempt from CEQA:

8

(A) The first approval of the project in reliance on the exemption by a City
decision-making body at a noticed public hearing;

or

(B) If approved without a noticed public hearing, the decision by a City
department or official in reliance on the exemption that commits the City to
a definite course of action in regard to a project intended to be carried out by

any person."

DISCUSSION

30. Petitioners vehemently disagree and protest the reasons given us at the
time of the appeal for the Board Of Supervisor Clerk's refusal to certify it;
namely, that the appeal was "untimely" because it was "too early.'

The evidence presented here shows that the Action Approval was set in
motion under the law and with proper notice to all parties on May 16, 2018.
At the time, and prior to the determination that the appeal was untimely
(because "too early"), the Clerk and other representatives of the City and
County responded positively to appellants' questions regarding the date of
the Approval Action. All agreed that the Approval Action date was May 16.

9

31. As the City and County had access to legal advice from the City
Attorney's office at that time, and, additionally, had access to advice from
the office of the Chief Environmental Officer, Lisa Gibson, the City and
County should have been able to ascertain the correct Approval Action date
in response to appellants' questions.

32. Petitioners point out that by misdirected us in this regard, the City and
County has prevented appellants from appealing the Certificate of
Appropriateness to the Board of Appeals, an appeal that was also due on
June 15. The City rather than the citizens must shoulder the responsibility
for the consequences of their ambiguous directions.

33. We submit those sections of the Administrative Code that clearly define
the meaning of an "Approval Action," the substance of which is that the
Approval Action took place at the Historic Preservation Commission on
May 16, 2018, upon the approval of Motion 340 by that deliberative body.

34. This Motion, along with other evidence that supports our appeal being
timely filed on June 15, 2018, is attached.

10

A plain reading of the recitations in the Motion, and of the Findings on Page
2, and of the context of the public meeting in which they were presented in
Draft Form, clearly indicate that the members of the Historic Preservation
Commission were familiar with the Planning Department's determination
that the project was "categorically exempt," thereby meeting the
requirements of Administrative Code 31.04(h)(2)(A) and establishing, along
with other evidence, that the Approval Action Date was May 16 and not

later.

EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES, TIMELINESS

35. Pursuant to Public Resource Code §§ 21177 (a) and (b), Petitioner has
exhausted his administrative remedies.

36. The requirement for a 90-Day Appeal period is met by the submission of this
Writ for review by the Court on this 25th day of September, 2018.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF

37. WHEREFORE, Petitioners pray for all of the following:
A. A judgment overturning the decision by the City and County Senior Planning
Officer and by the San Francisco Board of Supervisors Clerk that the appeal by
Plaintiffs of the Historic Preservation Commission on May 16, 2018 was
"Untimely."

11

B. The Court should either determine that the appeal was timely or, in lieu of this,
send the matter back for reconsideration to the Senior Planning Officer to review
the timeliness of the appeal filed on June 15, 2018.
C. An administrative stay order, temporary restraining order, and/or preliminary
injunction enjoining the Respondents and their agents and employees from any
and all physical actions in furtherance of the project;
D. Costs of this action;
E. Attorneys' Fees;
F. For other such relief as the Court may deem just and proper.

DATED: September 25, 2018

MARC BRUNO, Petitioner Plaintiff

19 -

VERIFICATION

I, Marc Bruno, declare:

am a resident of the City and County of San Francisco at the address listed
above. I am filing this complaint in pro per, and I represent the interests of the
organization Save North Beach, a non-profit association of which I am a
founding member.

12

I have read the foregoing VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF
ADMINISTRATIVE MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT; NOTICE OF INTENT TO FILE CEQA
PETITION; and REQUEST FOR HEARING, and know the contents thereof.
I am informed and believe that the matters stated therein are true and, on that
ground, I allege that the matters stated therein are true.

I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the Sate of California that
the foregoing is true and correct.

Executed at San Francisco, California on September 25, 2017,

2
MARC BRUNO, Petitioner Plaintiff

13

Exhibit A

Appeal by Petitioners Filed on June 15, 2018

Exhibit B

Motion passed on May 16, 2018 by the San Francisco
Historic Preservation Commission (a.k.a. Motion 0340)

Exhibit C

Letter regarding Timeliness, Angela Calvillo (Tune 26, 2918)

Exhibit D

Letter regarding Timeliness, Lisa Gibson (June 26, 2918)

Exhibit A

Appeal by Petitioners Filed on June 15, 2018

Letter of Appeal of Categorical Exemption ("C.E.") 2018-003700PRI/EXVI5OF5
To: Angela Calvillo, Clerk of the Board SAN FRANCISCO
San Francisco Board of Supervisors 2018 JUN 15 PM 3:56
City Hall / 1 Dr. Carlton Goodlett Place / SF CA 94102
<angela.calvillo@sfgov.org> 415-554-7630 BY.

Attn: Brent Jalipa, Legislative Clerk City Hall / Dr. Carlton Goodlett Place / SF CA 94102
<brent.jalipa@sfgov.org>415-554-5184
Ce: Aaron Peskin, Supervisor, District 3 City Hall / 1 Dr. Carlton Goodlett Place / SF CA 94102
<aaron.peskin@sfgov.org> 415-554-7450
Ce: John Rahaim, Director
San Francisco Planning Department
1650 Mission Street #400 / SF CA 94103
<john.rahaim@sfgov.org>415-558.6350
Ce: Elizabeth Jonckheer, Project Planner, S F Planning Department
elizabeth.gordon-jonckheer@sfgov.org>415-575-8728
Per San Francisco Administrative Code §31.16(e)(1), this Appeal of C.E. 2018- 003700PRJ, consequent to the proposed closure of Washington Square, a park in San Francisco, California and a "known Historic resource" located at Block Lot 1020001, is hereby submitted to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors.
The at-issue Categorical Exemption ("C.E.") was inadequately researched and inadequately promulgated, offering no opportunity until this appeal for those members of the public most likely to be affected by the underlying project to suggest changes or otherwise comment on it. The conclusions drawn in the C.E. are flawed, and those flawed conclusions are detrimental to the very reasons
given by the City for its so-called "conservancy project."
June 15, 2108
Dear Board of Supervisors Clerk Calvillo,
Thank you for accepting this appeal of the above referenced Categorical Exemption for consideration, discussion and vote by the San Francisco Board of Supervisors.
Marc Bruno, Appellant
15 Nobles Alley Daniel Macchiarini, Appellant
President, North Beach Business Association
San Francisco, CA 94133
<marcabruno@yahoo.com> Macchiarini Creative Design & Metalworks

415-434-1528 Gallery, Legacy Business
<danny1mac@sbcglobal.net>
415-982-2229

1

I. Introduction

My name is Marc Bruno and I submit this appeal on behalf of the North Beach
Business Association, the sole neighborhood group representing businesses in
the North Beach Commercial District, and myself.

Appellant Marc Bruno

I am the Treasurer of the St. Vincent de Paul Society Conference at Saints Peter and Paul Church, a volunteer position. also am a former employee of San Francisco St. Vincent de Paul Society, a non-profit organization serving the
needs of homeless individuals and families who live in and pass through the
City. St. Vincent de Paul Society is a contractual partner with the City for one of the San Francisco's largest homeless shelters, MSC South. We also help operate
two of the City's new Navigation Centers.
In my role as volunteer and former employee of the Society, I have worked with the homeless in and around the proposed project site, Washington Square, for over 20 years. In addition to the environmental concerns described herewith, I
am disturbed by the project sponsor's failure to formulate a plan to relocate a and house the many homeless individuals and families who live in Washington
Square. Without such planning, these people, already facing severe economic
and emotional challenges, will be further harmed, as will the public at-large.
Appellant North Beach Business Association (hereinafter, "NBBA")
North Beach Business Association (NBBA) represents over 100 active
members, all businesses located in North Beach. At least 15 of these businesses
are in plain view of and surround Washington Square, the site of the proposed project. These businesses and others in our greater commercial district will be greatly damaged should the project proceed without further environmental
review. Indeed, many of our member businesses are convinced they will be out
of business by the time the so-called conservancy project is complete. Their
loss will be a direct consequence of the failure of the City to mitigate the overt detrimental effects on the environment should the project move forward without reasonable mitigation.
The mitigation we seek, and the mitigation the writers of the Categorical Exemption inexplicably ignore, are the reasonable measures that should be taken to ameliorate the effects of the project on traffic, air quality and noise. There should be plans in place for construction and dirt removal and re- installation, dust mitigation as well as noise mitigation, SO that businesses around Washington Square, many of which are outdoor sidewalk cafes with
patios, will not go out of business.

2

A traffic disruption mitigation plan should also be in place. No construction debris, materials nor vehicles should be stored or parked on sidewalks, nor on public and commercial parking spaces, nor in bicycle, bus and taxi zones.
It also is imperative that an effective and enforceable contractor oversight and accountability plan be in place to ensure immediate on-site compliance with an approved mitigation plan, and that the project be completed by the contracted due date. Any extension of the project will, unavoidably, have a negative impact on the environment and the cultural integrity of the neighborhood, and these in
turn will exacerbate the project's impact on the historic commercial district that is so essential to the quality of life in North Beach.
II. Objection to and Appeal of Categorical Exemption 2016-014104ENV
Please know that by this communication, hand-delivered to the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors as well as sent digitally by email to same, the undersigned Appellants notify you that we object to and appeal the attached "Categorical
Exemption" for Washington Square, a park in San Francisco, California, Case
Number 2018-003700PRJ, Block Lot 1020001.
The review on which the Categorical Exemption is based is a review of a project sponsored by the San Francisco Recreation and Parks Department. The title of
the project is "Washington Square Water Conservancy Project." No other
identifying information is given concerning the project in the Categorical
Exemption.

Based on the year-long duration of the closure of an Article 10 Landmarked resource, Washington Square, we believe that at a minimum the real party in interest, the San Francisco Recreation and Parks Department, is required to
produce a Mitigated Negative Declaration before proceeding with the project.
III. Arguments in Favor of Appeal of C.E. 2018-003700PRJ
(A.) Project sponsors failed to notify the public and the decision-makers
reviewing the project that the project site, a public park, shall be closed
for one year as a result of the project. The failure to notify the public and
decision-makers of this closure is an egregious error, preventing public
and decision-makers from grasping the scope of the project, an essential
component used to evaluate the effect of a project on the environment.
Project sponsors failed to notify the public and designated decision-makers (a.k.a. "Commissioners") of their intent to close the park for one year. Indeed,
-they only once mention the possibility of any closure whatsoever in documents
presented to the Commission. Thus, project sponsors fail to reveal the scope of the project, an essential element in evaluating its likely environmental impact.

3

The comments of Commissioner Ellen Johnck, RPA, are particularly telling in this regard. In deliberations on the Washington Square project on May 16, the single hearing on this project, the Commissioner points out that nowhere in the supporting documents to the Commission and the public is mention made of "site closure" or "park closure;" to wit:
"I would move continuance. It seems like there is some overlap here, and even though I agree that some of the issues don't exactly apply to our historic issue, I was unaware that the park was going to close- even though I thoroughly read the entire document. I don't see a problem with moving [the motion] a month, really, with the parks department so we can do more and hear more about this." [Emphasis added.]
Commissioner Johnck, the Commission's only Preservation Professional, is not
mistaken in her assessment of the Planning Department's and Rec and Park's
failure to be forthright in revealing the year-long closure of the project site. In the entire 82-page report to the Commission, there is only one mention of the word "closure," in a single sentence describing the public's correspondence "related to this project." Note that the reference does not even say on which side the public falls. The reader might as easily assume that the public correspondence is in favor of the closure as against it -- perhaps because the closure is so unexpected brief.
The decision-makers ("Commissioners") are left hanging. They do not know the implication of the correspondence, because they are told anywhere that the park will even be closed for one day; to wit:
"The Department has received public correspondence related to this project in
regard to the duration of the closure of the park due to the remodel, and the
dislocation of the park's homeless population."
That's it in the entire 82-page supporting document regarding "closure" of the project site, a Section 10 Landmarked Public Resource. And if decision-makers
were kept in the dark up until the time of the hearing on May 16, how much
more was the public kept there too?
As no mention is made of the length of the park closure, and as no mention is made of what position the public correspondence takes on the issue, reference
to public correspondence is no better than the "newspeak" George Orwell
ridicules-- and warns us against-- in his book 1984.
No mention is made of the project site closure in agenda item for Washington Square before the Commission on May 16. No mention is made of the closure

4

on the notice posted in the park to invite the public to the Historic Preservation
Commission Hearing. No mention is made of it in the on-line disclosure form for the hearing, and no mention is made of it by Project Manager Levi Conover and Project Planner Elizabeth Jonckheer, testifying before the Commission on
May 16.
Without truthfully revealing the negative effect of the project on the park closure, the Planning Department discouraged participation by the public in reviewing the Categorical Exemption and the effect of the underlying project on the environment. On no written notice or signage concerning the hearing of May 16, 2018 does the City present any information to the public concerning
the closing of the park.
By not presenting an assessment that refers to the closure of the park-- nor
even mentioning the possibility that the park will be closed-- the City failed to
give proper notice to the public about the scope of the project. As project scope
is an essential element in understanding a project's likely impact on the
environment, project sponsors' failure to mention the scope of the project skewed public comment away from the essential environmental questions at the hearing on May 16.
City officials have an obligation to explain to the public the downside of a
project as well as the upside. City officials failing to notify the public of the
closure of the park is a violation of that transparency each of us as citizens have
a right to expect from representative government.
On its face the Categorical Exemption is flawed for this reason alone: because
prior to and during the hearing before the Commission on May 16 project sponsors place the context of the project and its scope in a false light.
IlI. Arguments in Favor of Appeal of C.E. 2018-003700PRI
(B.) City's Failure to Publish and Promulgate the Categorical Exemption prior to the Historic Preservation Commission hearing on May 16, 2018 that was to consider such exemption is a violation of law and undercuts
the very basis of the California Environmental Quality Act.
The San Francisco Planning Department failed to publish, issue, review, give
notice or otherwise promulgate the Categorical Exemption in this matter, as
required by law.
In the Commission Package prepared by the Department for its Commission (the "Historic Preservation Commission"), there is only one mention of the
Department's decision that the proposed project at Washington Square. On

5

page 1, of the proposed Motion to be signed by the Commission, should
Planning receive an approval by the Commission, the Motion reads:
"WHEREAS, the Project was determined by the Department to be categorically
exempt from environmental review. The Historic Preservation Commission
("Commission") has reviewed and concurs with said determination."
This textual relic from the "supporting packet" for the project sponsor's application for a Certificate of Appropriateness makes no sense grammatically
or procedurally. (It is copied directly from the Planning Department's Case
Report, the department's sole submission to the Commission for Agenda ltem
(9), May 16, 2018. The title of the agenda item is "Washington Square - Request
for Certificate of Appropriateness.")
How and under what circumstances was the Commission given a chance to do what it claims to have done by signing off on the Certificate of Appropriateness
on May 16, 2018? In other words, how could the Commission on that day or
any other day have "reviewed and concur[ed] with said determination?"
The Commission was not presented with the Categorical Exemption prior to the
meeting, and the Commission was not presented with the Categorical Exemption during the meeting. How then could the Commission "review" such exemption being advocated by the Planning Department?
In their testimony before the Commission in favor of the application for the Certificate of Appropriateness on May 16, neither Levi Conover, Recreation and Parks Department Project Manager nor Elizabeth Jonckheer, Project Planner,
mentions the words "Categorical Exemption" nor the word "exemption" nor
"CEQA" nor any other word or reference that implies any sort of review was
being offered-- or questions answered-- by either department for the City's
assigned decision-makers.
Together with Ghirardelli Square (approved 1970) and the Music Concourse at Golden Gate Park (2005) Washington Square, landmarked in 1999, is one of
only three Landmarked Public Spaces under Article 10 of the San Francisco Planning Code. To put it another way, of the 266 such Landmarks under Article 10, 263 are buildings and three, only, are open spaces that may be experienced
by the public in a way unique to the enjoyment of the natural environment.
Given that Washington Square is one of only three such landmarked spaces, and given that the Historic Preservation Commission is assigned to protect
such landmarks, the review of a Categorical Exemption for a year-long project
in, on and around such space should receive the highest scrutiny.

6

That was not done here, because the Planning Department and the real party in
interest, the Rec and Park Department, did not adequately inform the Commission of the scope of the project nor submit the Categorical Exemption prior to or during the Commission hearing.
The need for such documentation in order for the Commission to properly
review the environmental consequences of a project is anticipated by the "Rules and Regulations of the Historic Preservation Commission," which read,
in part, as follows:

Submittals and Hearing Procedures:
I. Submittals:
a. Staff packet due to Commission one week in advance of hearing. Il. Content of submittals should be as follows:
1. Clear plans and elevations (all plans should include a "north" directional arrow)
2. Physical context, adjacency, back and facing properties across the right-of-way to illustrate the historic context of the project (which should include color streetscape on both sides of street)
3. Environmental and historic resource documents to be attached to all submittals.

By any reasonable standard, the Categorical Exemption itself-- the document
upon which the exemption is based-- should have been submitted to the public
and to the Commission prior to the hearing, That it was not so submitted precluded the public and decision-makers from adequately reviewing the environmental impact of the proffered exemption.
Even had Mr. Conover and Ms. Jonckheer presented the Categorical Exemption
at the time of the hearing, what good would such presentation do for the public whose rights at the hearing were violated by not being given the relevant documents prior to the Commission's approval of them?
The Categorical Exemption from which we appeal is a clearly delineated decision by the department, and such document was never presented to the pubic or the Commission prior to or during the hearing on May 16. It should
have been so presented, as a matter of transparency, fair play and law.
prior to its consideration for the first time at the City's Historic Preservation Commission on May 16, 2018. Indeed, the C.E. is not included in the Board
packet for the meeting on May 16. (See Exhibit 2, "Historic Preservation
Commission, Motion 0340").

III. Arguments in Favor of Appeal of C.E. 2018-003700PRI
(C.) The City's Failure to Mitigate the acknowledged detrimental effect on traffic, parking and air quality as a consequence of the project belies the notion that the project shall produce no significant on the environment.

7

As neighbors of the project, Appellants are gravely concerned by the cumulative impact of construction with seven projects located within a 0.25 Mile radius of the project proposed for Washington Square, coupled with current work being done or planned as part of the Central Subway (less than one mile away). Better Market Street, Geary Bus Rapid Transit Project and the re-building of 46 residential units and six ground-floor commercial spaces
directly across from the park will result in a significant cumulative impact on
traffic, parking and air quality that is never considered by the Planning
Department in its Categorical Exemption.
As representatives of residents and the local business community, Appellants respectfully ask the Supervisors to take notice of the North Beach - Telegraph Hill Historic District, and area that contains the City's oldest commercial spaces and most longstanding active businesses. Of the 100+ members of the North
Beach Business Association, 16 are eligible for "legacy business designation," and four additional businesses are already so designated. Of the 100+ members of the organization, each one is owner-operated, and only three member businesses have a second store location elsewhere in the City.
The lives of these owners, their employees and the families of all members of the owners and employees rely on an open, transparent and thorough review of a project that will so profoundly affect the vitality of the businesses on which they depend for income. Such historic and review cannot and should not casually ignore the likely environmental that will lead to the demise of
businesses in the community.
Interestingly, but not surprisingly, some of the same criteria that gave rise to the requirements of CEQA also give rise to our opposition to the Categorical Exemption. As CEQA protects our health and well-being by protecting the
environment, so does CEQA indirectly protect the well-being of businesses by establishing minimum local standards of air quality and traffic mitigation so
that people may live with and near construction projects without facing serious
health consequences,
What family with children will eat a pizza at a restaurant covered with dust and smoke from a construction project mere 30' from their table? What tourist will pay $200 and upwards per night for a room in a bed and breakfast hotel that cannot guarantee the quiet enjoyment of her room? What hat shop will attract clients who cannot even hear what they say over the phone, because of
noise from a backhoe less than 60' from the front door?

All these circumstances will come to pass if the environmental review of the proposed project is not adequately researched, and if the truth of the proposed

8

scope of the project is not revealed to the public and to decision-makers responsible for reviewing the Categorical Exemption.
Tony's Neapolitan Pizzeria will suffer; Grodin's Hat Store and its many
employees will suffer; Washington Square Inn will suffer. And these are but three of the 14 businesses that look directly across the street at Washington
Square.
It is for this public and these representative businesses that we are here today. As the full scope of the project was never revealed to the public or to decision- makers until the day of the hearing on May 16 (and then, just barely), so were the public and decision-makers denied the chance to properly consider the scope of the project in reviewing the Categorical Exemption.
We ask the Board of Supervisors to now give the proper review of the
Categorical Exemption, with all the facts before this Board.
CEQA requires consideration by lead agencies not only of the effects of a project on the physical environment but also the effect on the cultural context
that is integral to the fabric of the environment. Here, in North Beach, one of
the most densely populated and historic areas of the City, the loss of active
retail and restaurant businesses that might result as a result of the project
sponsors' year long project was never considered in the Categorical Exemption.
This is one more reason we believe the research and conclusions of that
exemption are fatally flawed. The document simply does not reflect the reality of the environmental impact of the proposed project.
The cumulative effect of the neighborhood's seven building projects-- all within
a 0.25 mile radius of Washington Square-- require project sponsors to, at a minimum produce a Mitigated Negative Declaration before proceeding.

III. Arguments in Favor of Appeal of C.E. 2018-003700PRJ
(D.) Project Sponsor's proposed fencing of those sections of the site dedicated to trees and plantings will have a profound effect on the character and traditional use of the park, thereby offending the preservation requirements of an Article 10 Landmark.
In her testimony before the Commission, City Planner Elizabeth Jonckheer states that changes being made to the park "are consistent with the historic configuration of the park and with the visual appearance of the park" (SF GOV
TV VIDEO, HPC, MAY 16, 2018, Time Code 25:55) ""will not alter the character
defining features of the landscape" "proposed fencing will not impact the
traditional use or open character of the landscape"

9

Nothing could be further from the truth or more unreasonable than to suggest
that in this park, barley one acre in size, the fencing of each and every sections of plantings will have no impact on the park.
Appellants offer just one "fun fact" to dispute this unreasonable claim by the Planning Department. If one were to measure the full length of fencing being added to the park under the euphemism of "modification," that length exceeds
the perimeter of the entire park, which is, as mentioned above, an Article 10
Landmarked site.

The fencing being proposed is unsightly, unnecessary and inconsistent with the
open character of the park as it was reconceived by prominent San Francisco
landscape architects Lawrence Halprin and Douglas Bayliss in 1958.
In addition, in a small space such as Washington Square, fencing is dangerous to children, dog walkers and others. Under the proposed fencing plan, there will be no easy way for a child to a retrieve a ball, a college student to retrieve a Frisbee or anyone to pick up a wayward small dog. And yet, as someone who has lived near this park for over 30 years, I know that all these activities take place in Washington Square every day.
Adding black chains and iron-in-appearance fencing to a park the size a of
Washington Square is to impose a large park mentality on a delicate open a
space that functions well as it is today. And such fencing undoes the unique qualities of this much beloved and admired community space.

IV. Legal Background, CEQA
CEQA (Pub. Resources Code § 21000 et seq.) requires that an agency analyze
the potential environmental impacts of the Project, i.e., its proposed actions, in
an environmental impact report (EIR) except in certain limited circumstances.
(See, e.g., PRC § 21100).
The environmental review is the very heart of CEQA. (Dunn-Edwards v.
BAAQMD (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 644, 652). A foremost principle in interpreting CEQA is that the Legislature intended the act to be read so as to afford the fullest possible protection to the environment within the scope of the statutory
language, and to include public notice, public input and public participation in the development of projects that affect the environment. (Communities for a Better Environment v. Cal. Resources Agency (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 98, 109).
CEQA has two primary purposes. First, CEQA is designed to inform decision makers and the public about the potential, significant environmental effects of

10

a project. (14 Cal. Code Regs. ( CEQA Guidelines § 15002(a)(1)). Its purpose is to inform the public and its responsible officials of the environmental
consequences of their decisions before they are made.
An EIR protects not only the environment but also informed self-government. (Citizens of Goleta Valley v. Bd. of Supervisors (1990) 52 Cal.3d 553, 564). A properly executed environmental review is an alarm bell to alert the public and
its responsible officials to environmental changes before they have reached ecological points of no return. (Berkeley Keep Jets Over the Bay V. Bd. of Port Commissioners. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1344, 1354).
Second, CEQA also requires public agencies to avoid or reduce environmental
damage when feasible by requiring environmentally superior alternatives and mitigation measures. (CEQA Guidelines 15002(a)(2) and (3); Citizens of Goleta-Valley 52 Cal.3d at 564). Mitigation measures must be fully enforceable
and not deferred. (CEQA Guidelines § 15126.4; Sundstrom v. County of
Mendocino (1988) 202 Cal. App. 3d 296, 308-309).
The mitigation component of a properly executed environmental review serves to provide the public and responsible government officials with information about the environmental impacts of a proposed project-- and to identify ways environmental damage can be avoided and reduced. (Guidelines §15002(a)(2)).
If the project will have a significant effect on the environment, CEQA requires the adoption of a feasible alternative that meets most of the project objectives but results in fewer significant impacts. (Citizens of Goleta Valley v. Bd. of
Supervisors (1988) 197 Cal. App. 3d 1167, 1180-81).
A feasible alternative is one that is capable of being accomplished in a successful manner within a reasonable period of time, taking into account economic, environmental, legal, social and technological factors. (Pub. Res. Code § 21061.1; 14 Cal. Code Regs. § 15364). CEQA requires that an EIR provide a discussion of project alternatives that allows meaningful analysis.
A properly done environmental review shall describe a range of reasonable alternatives to the project, or to the location of the project, to feasibly attain
most of the basic objectives while avoiding or substantially lessening any of the detrimental effects of the project, and evaluate the comparative merits of the alternatives. (CEQA Guidelines § 15125.6).
In the instant case, no such mitigation methods and alternatives have been
offered by the Planning Department. This is not surprising, because it seems to

11

appellants that the Department and the real party in interest, the sponsor
Recreation and Parks Department, have gone out of their way to hide the closure of the park, and the extent of that closure, from both the Historic
Preservation Commission and the public at-large.

IV.Timeliness of this Appeal under CEQA
This appeal is timely filed within all applicable statutes of limitations. This action is timely under CEQA because it is filed within 30 days of the City and County's Categorical Exemption, dated May 17, 2018 and filed with the Clerk of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors on June 15, 2018. (PRC § 21167(b), (c), and (e); 14 CCR § 15112(c)(1).
Thank you for your considered attention and discussion of this appeal.

Signed,

a
Marc Bruno, Appellant
15 Nobles Alley
San Francisco CA 94133
<marcabruno@yahoo.com>
415-434-152B

Daniel Macchiarini, Appellant President, Naith Beach Business Association Macchiarini Creative Design & Metalworks
Gallery, a Legacy Business
<danny1mac@sbcglobal.net>
415-982-2229

Note: It is our intention to submit additional documents supporting this appeal
prior to the 30 day expiration period. Thank you.

12

Exhibit B

Motion passed on May 16, 2018 by the San Francisco
Historic Preservation Commission (a.k.a. Motion 0340)

F SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING DEPARTMENT

Historic Preservation Commission 1650 Mission St.
Suite 400
Motion No. 0340 San Francisco,
CA 94103-2479
HEARING DATE: MAY 16, 2018 Reception:
415.558.6378

Case No.: 2018-003700COA Fax:
Project Address: Filbert Street and Columbus Avenue 415.558.6409

Historic Landmark: No. 226: Washington Square Planning
Zoning: P (Public) Information:

OS (Open Space) Height and Bulk District 415.558.6377

Block/Lot: 0102/001
Applicant: Levi Conover, Project Manager
San Francisco Recreation and Park Department
30 Van Ness Avenue, 3ed Floor
San Francisco, CA 94102
Staff Contact: Elizabeth Gordon Jonckheer (415) 575-8728
elizabeth.gordon-jonckheer@sfgov.org
Reviewed By: Tim Frye (415) 575-6822
tim.frye@sfgov.org

ADOPTING FINDINGS FOR A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR PROPOSED WORK
DETERMINED TO BE APPROPRIATE FOR AND CONSISTENT WITH THE PURPOSES OF
ARTICLE 10, TO MEET THE STANDARDS OF ARTICLE 10, TO MEET THE SECRETARY OF
INTERIOR'S STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION, FOR THE PROPERTY LOCATED ON LOT 001
IN ASSESSOR'S BLOCK 0102, WITHIN A P (PUBLIC) ZONING DISTRICT AND AN OS (OPEN
SPACE) HEIGHT AND BULK DISTRICT.

PREAMBLE

WHEREAS, on March 13, 2018 Levi Conover of the San Francisco Recreation and Parks Department
("Project Sponsor") filed an application with the San Francisco Planning Department (hereinafter
"Department") for a Certificate of Appropriateness for alterations to Washington Square, including: the
removal and replacement of existing trees and the addition of new trees, removal of all existing shrubs
and bushes in the perimeter planting beds, replacement of existing benches in-kind, replacement of all
existing asphalt pathways, installation of perimeter cobble pavers at the lawn and planting bed edges,
installation concrete curbs along the planter beds, and installation of perimeter low fencing on outer
planter bed edges.
WHEREAS, the Project was determined by the Department to be categorically exempt from environmental review. The Historic Preservation Commission ("Commission") has reviewed and concurs
with said determination.

www.sfplanning.org

Motion No. 0340 CASE NO. 2018-003700COA
May 16, 2018 Washington Square

WHEREAS, on May 16, 2018, the Commission conducted a duly noticed public hearing on the current
project, Case No. 2018-003700COA ("Project") for its appropriateness.

WHEREAS, in reviewing the Application, the Commission has had available for its review and
consideration case reports, plans, and other materials pertaining to the Project contained in the
Department's case files, has reviewed and heard testimony and received materials from interested parties
during the public hearing on the Project.

MOVED, that the Commission hereby grants the Certificate of Appropriateness, in conformance with the. plans dated March 31, 2018 labeled Exhibit A on file in the docket for Case No. 2018-003700COA based
on the following findings:

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

1. Specifications for final materials, including the post and chain fencing, walkway paving material, cobblestone for planting bed borders, and the bench material will be forwarded for review and
approval by Planning Department Preservation Staff prior to the issuance of Building Permit
Applications.

FINDINGS

Having reviewed all the materials identified in the recitals above and having heard oral testimony and arguments, this Commission finds, concludes, and determines as follows:

1. The above recitals are accurate and constitute findings of the Commission.

2. Findings pursuant to Article 10:

The Historic Preservation Commission has determined that the proposed is work is compatible with the character of the landmark as described in the designation report.

That the proposed project is compatible with the Washington Square, Landmark Number 226
since the project does not affect the design and form of the site.

That the project would maintain the existing use of the park as a public open space and would
maintain the park's historic character.

That the proposed project maintains and does not alter or destroy the park's character-defining
features or materials.

The proposed project meets the requirements of Article 10.

* On balance, the proposed project meets the following Secretary of Interior's Standards for
Rehabilitation: The proposed project meets the following Secretary of Interior's Standards for
Rehabilitation:

SAN FRANCISÇO PLANNING DEPARTMENT 2.

Motion No. 0340 CASE NO. 2018-003700COA
May 16, 2018 Washington Square

Standard 1.
A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a new use that requires minimal change to
the defining characteristics of the building and its site and environment.

Standard 2.
The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved. The removal of historic materials or
alteration of features and spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.

Standard 3.
Each property will be recognized as physical record of its time, place, and use. Changes that create a false
sense of historical development, such as adding conjectural features or elements from other historic
properties, will not be undertaken.

Standard 5.
Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a
property shall be preserved..

Standard 9.
New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction will not destroy historic materials, features,
and spatial relationships that characterize the property. The new work will be differentiated from the old
and will be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and proportion, and massing to
protect the integrity of the property and its environment.

Standard 10.
New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be undertaken in such a manner that if
removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its environment would
be unimpaired.

3. General Plan Compliance. The proposed Certificate of Appropriateness is, on balance, consistent
with the following Objectives and Policies of the General Plan:

I. URBAN DESIGN ELEMENT
THE URBAN DESIGN ELEMENT CONCERNS THE PHYSICAL CHARACTER AND ORDER OF
THE CITY, AND THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PEOPLE AND THEIR ENVIRONMENT.

GOALS
The Urban Design Element is concerned both with development and with preservation. It is a concerted effort to
recognize the positive attributes of the city, to enhance and conserve those attributes, and to improve the living environment where it is less than satisfactory. The Plan is a definition of quality, a definition based upon
human needs.

OBJECTIVE 1
EMPHASIS OF THE CHARACTERISTIC PATTERN WHICH GIVES TO THE CITY AND ITS
NEIGHBORHOODS AN IMAGE, A SENSE OF PURPOSE, AND A MEANS OF ORIENTATION.

SAN FRANCISCO PLANNING DEPARTMENT 3

Motion No. 0340 CASE NO. 2018-003700COA
May 16, 2018 Washington Square

POLICY 1.3
Recognize that buildings, when seen together, produce a total effect that characterizes the city and its districts.

OBJECTIVE 2
CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES WHICH PROVIDE A SENSE OF NATURE, CONTINUITY
WITH THE PAST, AND FREEDOM FROM OVERCROWDING.

POLICY 2.4
Preserve notable landmarks and areas of historic, architectural or aesthetic value, and promote the preservation
of other buildings and features that provide continuity with past development.

POLICY 2.5
Use care in remodeling of older buildings, in order to enhance rather than weaken the original character of such
buildings.

POLICY 2.7
Recognize and protect outstanding and unique areas that contribute in an extraordinary degree to San
Francisco's visual form and character.

The goal of a Certificate of Appropriateness is to provide additional oversight for buildings and districts that are
architecturally or culturally significant to the City in order to protect the qualities that are associated with that
significance.

The proposed project qualifies for a Certificate of Appropriateness and therefore furthers these policies and
objectives by maintaining and preserving the character-defining features of Washington Square, Landmark
Number 226 for the future enjoyment and education of San Francisco residents and visitors.

4. The proposed project is generally consistent with the eight General Plan priority policies set forth in
Section 101.1 in that:

A) The existing neighborhood-serving retail uses will be preserved and enhanced and future
opportunities for resident employment in and ownership of such businesses will be enhanced:

The proposed project will have no effect on existing neighborhood-serving retail uses.

B) The existing housing and neighborhood character will be conserved and protected in order to
preserve the cultural and economic diversity of our neighborhoods:

The proposed project will strengthen neighborhood character by respecting the character-defining features
of the site and landmark in conformance with the Secretary of the Interior's Standards.

C) The City's supply of affordable housing will be preserved and enhanced:

SAN FRANCISCO LANNING DEPARTMENT 4

Motion No. 0340 CASE NO. 2018-003700COA
Mäy 16, 2018 Washington Square

The project will not affect the City's affordable housing supply.

D) The commuter traffic will not impede MUNI transit service or overburden our streets or
neighborhood parking:

The proposed project will not result in commuter traffic impeding MUNI transit service or overburdening
the streets or neighborhood parking.

E) A diverse economic base will be maintained by protecting our industrial and service sectors from
displacement due to commercial office development. And future opportunities for resident
employment and ownership in these sectors will be enhanced:

The proposed project will not have any impact on industrial and service sector jobs.

F) The City will achieve the greatest possible preparedness to protect against injury and loss of life
in an earthquake.

The project will have no effect on preparedness against injury and loss of life in an earthquake. The work will be executed in compliance with all applicable construction and safety measures.
G) That landmark and historic buildings will be preserved:
The proposed project is in conformance with Article 10 of the Planning Code and the Secretary of the
Interior's Standards.

H) Parks and open space and their access to sunlight and vistas will be protected from development:

The proposed project will not impact the access to sunlight or vistas for the parks and open space.

5. For these reasons, the proposal overall, is appropriate for and consistent with the purposes of Article
10, meets the standards of Article 10, and the Secretary of Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation,
General Plan and Prop M findings of the Planning Code.

SAN FRANCISCO PLANNING DEPARTMENT 5

Motion No. 0340 CASE NO. 2018-003700COA
May 16, 2018 Washington Square

DECISION

That based upon the Record, the submissions by the Applicant, the staff of the Department and other
interested parties, the oral testimony presented to this Commission at the public hearings, and all other written materials submitted by all parties, the Commission hereby APPROVES WITH CONDITIONS a Certificate of Appropriateness for the property located at Lot 001 in Assessor's Block 0102 for proposed work in conformance with the plans labeled Exhibit A on file in the docket for Case No. 2018- 003700COA.

APPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF MOTION: The Commission's decision on a Certificate of
Appropriateness shall be final unless appealed within thirty (30) days. Any appeal shall be made to the Board of Appeals, unless the proposed project requires Board of Supervisors approval or is
appealed to the Board of Supervisors as a conditional use, in which case any appeal shall be made to
the Board of Supervisors (see Charter Section 4.135),

Duration of this Certificate of Appropriateness: This Certificate of Appropriateness is issued pursuant is
to Article 10 of the Planning Code and is valid for a period of three (3) years from the effective date of approval by the Historic Preservation Commission. The authorization and right vested by virtue of this action shall be deemed void and canceled if, within 3 years of the date of this Motion, a site permit or
building permit for the Project has not been secured by Project Sponsor.

THIS IS NOT A PERMIT TO COMMENCE ANY WORK OR CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY UNLESS
NO BUILDING PERMIT IS REQUIRED. PERMITS FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING
INSPECTION (and any other appropriate agencies) MUST BE SECURED BEFORE WORK IS
STARTED OR OCCUPANCY IS CHANGED.

hereby certify that the Historical Preservation Commission ADOPTED the foregoing Motion on May 16,
2018.

Johas-P. Ionin
Commission Secretary

AYES: Black, Hyland, Johnck, Johns, Matsuda, Wolfram

NAYS: None

ABSENT: Pearlman

ADOPTED: May 16, 2018

SAN FRANCISCO PLANNING DEPARTMENT 6

SF REC & PARK WASHINGTON SQUARE PARK WATER CONSERVATION PROJECT

January 31, 2018

SAN FRANCISCO: WASHINGTON

RECREATION
& PARKS SQUARE

Project Manager
Levi Conover
Recreation and Parks Department

Design Team
Edward Chin, Landscape Architect
Andrea Alfonso, Landscape Architect TINDENJ

San Francisco Public Works

--

PUBLIC WORKS Building Design & Construction

FILBERT ST.

STOCKTON ST. Tree Legend
A- Olea Europaea, European Olive (Qty.2)
B- Michelia doltsopa, Sweet Michelia (Qty.2*
C- Populus nigra, Black Poplar (Qty.4)
D- Platanus racemosa, CA Sycamore (Qty.1)
E- Pinus Pinea, Stone Pine (Qty.1) DS M- Maytensus boaria, Mayten (Qty.1)

Marini
Piaza

Toillet

UNION ST. DRAWING NTS PROPOSED PLAN

Legend
Limit of Work Existing Bus Stop New Tree
Proposed Cobble Paving Tree to Be Removed/Replaced © Existing Tree 13 232 Proposed Grass Existing Light Pole Proposed Concrete Curb
Proposed Low Shrub/Groundcover Proposed Bench, as necessary ½ Proposed Grading Area
Remove AC paving 488SES Proposed Low Fencing #i Proposed Concrete Paving

10 Proposed Mulch Park Sign

Washington Square Park Water Conservation Project | 03.31.18 PUBLIC WORKS Building Design & Construction

PLANTING RECOMMENDATIONS FOUNDATION PLANT

Plant species selected for the palette meet several
underlying criteria, which are: low water use, provide
habitat for insects and birds and low maintenance.
Additionally, their profile grows under three feet tall to
maintain clear site lines for park safety.

It is recommended that the planting beds be filled with .0
Baccharis pilularis 'Twin Peaks' drifts of plant massings that seamlessly blend together. Olea europea 'little ollie' Prunus Laurocerasus 'Otfo Luyken' Little Ollie Dwarf Olive Cherry Laurel Dwarf Coyote Brush
This will allow specific plants to define planting beds * L

and give structure and character to the perimeter of
the park.

Temporary protective fencing should be installed at the
perimeter of new planting beds until new permanent
perimeter fencing can be installed.

Correa 'Dusky Bells' Red Australian Fuchsia Rhamnus californica 'Mt. San Bruno' Sollya heterophylla
Dwarf Coffeeberry Australian Bluebell Creeper
*** *Yi ***

Legend
Shade Tolerant

**** Spring Bloom
Summer Bloom
Fall Bloom
Winter Bloom
Attracts Insects and/or birds
Ceanothus gloriosus 'Anchor Bay' PLANTING PRECEDENTS Ceanothus 'Concha' Berberis thunbergii
Concha Ceanothus Berberis Anchor Bay Ceanothus
*Y * *Y

3 PUBLIC
WORKS Building Design & Construction Washington Square Park Water Conservation Project | 01.31.18

SHRUBS. * SUCCULENTS

Ribes Sanguineum Woodwardia fimbriafa Heuchera maxima Anemone x hybrida 'Hanorine Jobert
Pink Flowered Currant Chain Fern Island Alum Root Helleborus spp. Lenten Rose **** Japanese Anemone
*** ****

Agave bracteosa Zauschneria californica
Spider Agave Punica granatum 'nana' Dwarf Pomegranate California Fuchsia Euphorbia characias 'wulfenit' Santolina chamaecyparissus
Spurge Lanvender Cotton
*Y ** *Y

Legend
Shade Tolerant
Spring Bloom
Summer Bloom
Fall Bloom
Winter Bloom
Attracts Insects

Phormium fenax spp. Cotinus coggygria Lavendula spp. and/or birds

Dwarf Flax Smoketree Rosmarinus officinalis 'Prostratus' Penstemon heterophyllus 'BOP' Creeping Rosemary Blue Bedder
*Y ** *** Lavender
*Y

PUBLIC WORKS Building Design & Construction Washington Square Park Water Conservation Project |. 01.31.18

Plant Protection Fence Historic Bench
replace to match existing

Paving Paving Edge Curb at Sidewalk
waterjet concrete with basalt pavers
integral color

PUBLIC Material Palette
WORKS Building Design & Construction Washington Square Park Water Conservation Project | 01.31.18

Exhibit C

Letter regarding Timeliness, Angela Calvillo (June 26, 2918)

BOARD of SUPERVISORS F THE CI City Hall 1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, Room 244
San Francisco, CA 94102-4689
Tel. No. 554-5184

as Fax No. 554-5163
TDD/TTY No. 554-5227

June 26, 2018

Marc Bruno
Daniel Macchiarini
15 Nobles Alley San Francisco, CA 94133

Subject: File No. 180676 - Appeal of CEQA Categorical Exemption Determination - Washington Square Water Conservancy Project

Dear Mr. Bruno and Mr. Macchiarini:

The Office of the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors is in receipt of a memo from the Planning Department, dated June 26, 2018, regarding the timely filing of your appeal of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Categorical Exemption Determination issued for the
Washington Square Water Conservancy Project.
Pursuant to Administrative Code, Sections 31.16(a) and (e), any person or entity may appeal an exemption determination to the Board of Supervisors during the time period beginning with
the date of the exemption determination and ending 30 days after the date of Approval Action. Since the date of the Approval Action is unknown at this time, it is not possible for my office to schedule the appeal hearing. I have attached a copy a of the Planning Department's memo for further explanation.
The appeal hearing date will be scheduled once the Planning Department informs my office that the date of the Approval Action has occurred.
Note: The Office of the Clerk of the Board will hold the pending appeal up to six months from the appeal filing date, June 15, 2018. At the end of six months, if the Planning Department has not notified our office regarding the approval action of this appeal, we
will close the file.

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact Legislative Clerks Brent Jalipa at (415) 554-7712, Lisa Lew at (415) 554-7718, or Jocelyn Wong at (415) 554-7702.

Sincerely,
A9C040 Angela Calvillo
Clerk of the Board

Exhibit D

Letter regarding Timeliness, Lisa Gibson (June 26, 2918)

C OFSANE SAN FRANCISCO
PLANNING DEPARTMENT MEMO

DATE: June 26, 2018 1650 Mission St.
Suite 400
TO: Angela Calvillo, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors San Francisco,
CA 94103-2479
FROM: Lisa Gibson, Environmental Review Officer Yt Reception:

RE: Appeal Timeliness Determination - Washington Square Water 415.558.6378

Conservation Project, Planning Department Case No. 2018- Fax:

003700PRJ 415.558.6409

Planning
An appeal of the CEQA Categorical Exemption Determination for the proposed project Information:

for the Washington Square Water Conservation Project was filed with the Office of the 415.558.6377

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors on June 15, 2018 by Marc Bruno and Daniel
Macchiarini of the North Beach Business Association. As explained below, the appeal is
not timely.

Date of 30 Days after Approval Date of Appeal
Approval Action Action/Appeal Timely?
Deadline Filing

Not yet occurred To be determined June 15, 2018 No

Approval Action: On May 17, 2018, the Planning Department issued a CEQA Categorical Exemption Determination for the Washington Square Water Conservation Project,
proposing improvements to reduce the park's existing irrigation water use. The Approval Action for the project will be the Recreation and Park Commission's approval of the concept plan for the Washington Square Water Conservation Project.
Appeal Deadline: Section 31.16(a) and (e) of the San Francisco Administrative Code states that any person or entity may appeal an exemption determination to the Board of
Supervisors during the time period beginning with the date of the exemption
determination and ending 30 days after the Date of the Approval Action. The Approval Action for this project has not yet occurred, and the appeal deadline is unknown.
Appeal Filing and Timeliness: The appeal is not timely because the Approval Action for
the project has not yet occurred.

30144 aoiisor do 1EwIaVd3o CZ: NHV 6- 18 • 03A1303 SACRAMENTC WVANDO BRDO IE 5 L

01:2I Md 01 100 810Z
.4 AS0 *l 180 3M13H E