-

2 Gurjit Singh, Esq. (State Bar #316312) The Law Öffice of Gurjit Singh

3 399 N. Garey Ave., Second Fl. Pomona, California 91767

4 Phone: 818.396.6841
singh@lawsingh.com

5 Counsel for Plaintiff and Petitioner

6 Better Neighborhoods, Inc.

7

8

O SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

10 FOR THE COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE - SOUTHWEST DISTRICT

11 BETTER NEIGHBORHOODS INC,
a California Corporation, CASE NO.: RIC1820822

12 Plaintiff and Petitioner,

13 VS. NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL OF

14 CALIFORNIA OF VERFIED CEQA PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE

15 CITY OF BLYTHE, a municipal corporation; and the CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLYTHE, and DOES 1-10 AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCITIVE
AND DECLARATORY RELIEF

16

17 Defendants and Respondents. COURT: MURRIETA COURTHOUSE
JUDGE:
DEPT: ANGEL BERMUDEZ
S-302

18

19

20 PALO VERDE CENTER LLC, a California
limited liability company

21

22 Real Party in Interest

23

24

25

26

27 S855 In
28

NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL - PAGE T

1 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that under California Public Resources Code section 21167.7 and

2 California Code of Civil Procedure section 388, Petitioner and Plaintiff BETTER

3 NEIGHBORHOODS, INC., filed the attached verified petition for writ of mandate under the

4 provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act, California Public Resources Code section

5 21000, et seq. ("CEQA") against Respondents and Defendants CITY OF BLYTHE and CITY

6 COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLYTHE ("the "CITY"); and PALO VERDE CENTER, LLC.

7 The petition challenges the City's actions in approving the construction and operation of a

8 medical cannabis cultivation and manufacturing facility located at the Northeast corner of South

9 Intake Boulevard and 14th Avenue, in the City of Blythe (the "Project"), and alleges that the City

10 violated CEQA.

11

12 Respectfully submitted,

13

14 DATED: October 17, 2018 LAW OFFICE OF GURJIT SINGH

15
By:Mjt S
16 Gurjit Singh
17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL - PAGE 2

Gurjit Singh, Esq. (State Bar #316312) The Law Office of Gurjit Singh 399 N. Garey Ave., Second Fl.

3 Pomona, California 91767
Phone: 818.396.6841 Filed

singh@lawsingh.com SUPEEISRNFRP OFTA AVERMNISEPRINIA

Attorney for Plaintiff and Petitioner
Better Neighborhoods, Inc. OCT 11 2018
A. Rangel

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE

&S&USONYY €%505F00-5 BETTER NEIGHBORHOODS INC.
a California Corporation, CASE NO. RIC 1820822

Plaintiff and Petitioner, VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF

VS. MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE AND DECLARATORY RELIEF

CITY OF BLY THE, a municipal corporation;
and the CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLYTHE. and DOES 1-10 1. California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") Public Resources Code Section 21000, et sea.;

Defendants and Respondents. 2. Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5
3. Denial of Due Process

PALO VERDE CENTER LLC, a California
limited liability company; and DOES 11-20

Real Party in Intercs

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

Plaintiff and Petitioner, Better Neighborhoods Inc., a California corporation (*Petitioner")
alleges against the City of Blythe (*Blythe") and the City Council of the City of Blythe (the *City
Council;" (Blythe and the City Council being collectively referred to as "Respondents" or the
*City"), as follows:

INTRODUCTION

This action challenges the decisions by the City in connection with the approvals for
the "Palo Verde Center Project" located at the Northeast corner of South Intake Boulevard and 14h
Avenue, in the City of Blythe. The Project involves the construction and operation of 600,000
square feet of indoor cannabis cultivation facilities on 78.41 acres, to include four one-story
10 buildings, each of which consists of 150,000 square feet. Each of the four buildings will provide for
11 cultivation spaces ranging from under 10,000 square-feet up 22,000 square-feet, approximately
12 2,000 square-feet of trimming area, and 1,000 square-feet of office and storage space (the "Project").
13 The approvals included a General Plan Amendment and zoning change that would apply "General Commercial" designations to the property to replace the existing "Specific Plan Resort"
designations.

2. Petitioner challenges the City's actions and approvals and the adoption of the
17 Mitigated Negative Declaration under the California Environmental Quality Act and the CEQA
18 Guidelines (all of the foregoing, the "Project Approvals").

19 3 Petitioner alleges that the City's actions in giving the Project Approvals violate
20 provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code Section 21000, et
seq. ("CEQA")
8834 PARTIES

Petitioner is a California corporation established to help people present their
objections and help them shape local developments in pending municipal planning decisions, so that
25 such community members will be heard equally to that of the city staff and the developer. Petitioner
26 also encourages smart growth and real planning that is consistent with the needs of the residents of
27 the community, to protect the natural environment, to support affordable housing, and to balance the
28 needs for growth while preserving the elements of livability in our cities.

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

5 The City of Blythe is a charter city, duly organized under the laws of the State of
California The City of Blythe is the lead agency under CEQA for evaluating the environmental
impacts of the Project.

6. Petitioner is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, that Respondent, City
Council of the City of Blythe, is the elected governing body of Blythe and is the body responsible
for promulgating municipal ordinances, resolutions and policies.
7 Petitioner is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges, that the Real Party in
Interest. Palo Verde Center, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company (*Applicant" or "Developer"),
IS the owner of (or has the right to purchase) the real property that is the subject of the Project.
10 Developer is named as a real party pursuant to the requirements of Public Resources Code Section
11 21167.6.5, subdivision (a).
12 8.
e Petitioner is currently unaware of the true names and capacities of Does 1 through 10,
inclusive, and therefore sues those parties by such fictious names. Does I through 10, inclusive, are
agents of the City, county, state or federal government who are responsible in some manner for the
conduct described in this petition, or other persons or entities presently unknown to Petitioner who
16 claim some legal or equitable interest in the Project that is the subject of this action. Petitioner will
17 amend this petition to show the true names and capacities of Does 1 through 10 when such cepacities
,8 become known.

[9 9 Petitioner is currently unaware of the true names and capacities of Does 11 through
20 20, inclusive. Does 11 through 20, inclusive, are persons or entities presently unknown to Petitioner
21 &H2&NE who claim some legal or equitable interest in the Project that is the subject of this action. Petitioner
will amend this petition to show the true names and capacities of Does 1 through 20 when such
capacities become known.

JURISDICTION AND VENUE

27 10. This Court has jurisdiction to consider the CEQA claims under Public Resources
Code section 21168.5. This Court has jurisdiction to issue writs of mandate pursuant to Code of
28 Civil Procedure section 1094.5.

2
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

L1. The Respondent, City of Blythe, is located in Riverside County. Venue is proper in
2 the County of Riverside pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 394, subdivision (a).
12. Petitioner has a direct and beneficial interest in the granting of this writ of mandate,
as well as the requested injunctive relief. Petitioner has appeared at the public hearings held in
connection with granting the Approvals, and Petitioner has objected to the approval of the Project
prior to the City's adoption of the Approvals.

13 Petitioner has exhausted all available administrative remedies before Respondent, the
City, by objecting to the approval of the Project, as required by the provisions of Public Resources
Code Section 21177.

10 14. Petitioner has complied with the requirements of Public Resources Code
11 Section 21167.5 by mailing (and emailing) a written notice of the commencement of this action to
12 Respondent, the City, on September 13, 2018. A copy of the Intent to Sue letter is attached to this
13 Petition as Exhibit "A."*
4 15, Petitioner hereby notifies Respondent, the City, to prepare the complete record of
15 Respondents' proceedings relating to this action, subject to all rights and procedures for Petitioner to
16 elect to prepare, itself, the administrative record in this matter after Petitioner receives and reviews
17 Respondents' Preliminary Notification and cost estimate. A copy of the Petitioner's notice of
18 election to prepare the record is filed concurrently with this Petition.

19 16. Petitioners have no adequate remedy at law unless this Court grants the requested writ
20 of mandate and thereby orders the City to set aside the Approvals of the Project, In the absence of
21 such remedy, (a) the Approvals of the Project will remain in effect, in violation of State
888088 environmental laws and planning laws; (b) the Project, lacking adequate environmental review, will
be in violation of CEQA; and (c) Petitioners and members of the public in the community in which
the Project would be developed will suffer irreparable harm.

17. There is a significant probability that Petitioners will prevail on the merits in this
matter. The Court should issue a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction and permanent
injunction ordering Respondents to suspend all activities implementing the Project (including 28 without limitation processing or granting any permits for development of the Project) until the Court,
3 VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

by way of return writ, adjudicates that the City has fully complied with all requirements of the
California Environmental Quality Act.
I//

FACTS

18. The Project involves the construction and operation of 600,000 square feet of indoor
cannabis cultivation facilities on 78.41 acres, to include four one-story buildings, each of which
consists of 150,000 square feet. The approvals included a General Plan Amendment and zoning
change that would apply "General Commercial" designations to the property to replace the existing
*Specific Plan Resort" designations.

10 19, On or about September 5, 2018, during the public review period, Petitioner submitted

g written comments to the City Manager and City Clerk via email with regard to the Project, to be

(2 considered prior to and during the discussion at the City Council hearing scheduled for September
13 (1 2018. (See, Exhibit *B") In this comment letter, Petitioner raised all of the CEQA issues
included in this Petition.

15 20. On September 11, 2018, the City Council of the City held a public hearing to consider
16 the Project, During this hearing, the City Council heard from concerned members of the public with

17 regard to environmental issues and other policy matters relating to the Project, including from
18 Petitioner, and together they raised each of the legal deficiencies asserted in this Petition.

21. Prior to the September 11 public hearing, City staff recommended that the City

20 Council adopt a mitigated negative declaration (the "MND") for the Project, and all other approvals
21 for the Project,

22 22. At the September 11 hearing, counsel for Petitioner tried to present evidence that the
23 Project would result in several significant environmental impacts, which were either not considered
4 Q in the MND or were not properly mitigated by the mitigation measures in the MND. These
identified impacts included the following: (i) several goals and policies of the City's general plan
26 with which the Project stands in direct conflict; (ii) excessive water demands; (iii) excessive energy
27 demands and related noise created by gas generators; (iv) contamination of storm water and sanitary
28 sewer discharge; (v) contamination of air quality; (vi) negative effects on public health, putting

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

significant strain on local medical facilities; (vii) significant effects on traffic safety; and (viii)
significant increases in local crime and pressure on police resources.
23 Petitioner, on information and belief, understands that certain members of the City
Council attempted to interrupt, shout-down, obstruct and/or intimidate counsel for Petitioner as he
was giving his presentation.

24. The City Council approved the MND for the Project, and all other approvals for the
Project, all al the September 11, 2018 hearing, without any meaningful discussion among the
members of the City Council regarding the extensive and substantial evidence presented by
Petitioner in its September comment letter and its presentation at the September 11 public hearing.
10 25. Petitioner has performed all conditions imposed by law precedent to filing this action;
11 including complying with the requirement of Public Resources Code Section 21167.5 by mailing
notice to the City that this action would be filed. (See, Exhibit A).
26. Petitioner will also serve a copy of this Petition on the California Attorney General as
required by law,

29 27. Petitioner has a substantial interest in ensuring that the City's decisions are in
conformity with the requirements of law, and in having those requirements properly exccuted and
7 the public duties of the City enforced. Petitioner and members of the public will be adversely
affected by impacts resulting from the City's actions and approvals, and Petitioner and such
members of the public are aggrieved by the acts, decisions, and omissions of the City as alleged in
20 this petition and complaint. Petitioner brings this action on its behalf, and on behalf of others who
21 will be affected in the City of Blythe, as well as citizens of the City of Blythe.
22 &S&UEC 28. Petitioner has no plain, speedy or adequate remedy available in the ordinary course of
law to redress the claims alleged in this petition. Petitioner and the public generally will suffer
irreparable harm if this court does not issue a writ to compel the City to comply with CFQA and to
vacate and set aside the above-described approvals related to the Project.

5 VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
(Violation of CEQA and CEQA Guidelines; MND Does Not Comply with CEQA)
29. Petitioner realleges and incorporates herein by reference the allegations of Paragraphs
through 28 inclusive in this Petition.

30 CEQA requires a lead agency for a project to prepare a Mitigated Negative
Declaration that complies with the requirements of CEQA. The lead agency must provide for public
review and comment on the project and related environmental documentation. A Mitigated Negative
Declaration must provide sufficient environmental analysis so that decision makers can intelligently
consider environmental impacts that a proposed project may create.
=90‡0 31. The City's actions in adopting the MND for the Project constitute a prejudicial abuse
of discretion, because the City failed to proceed in the manner required by law and the City failed to
support its decision to gtant the approvals with substantial evidence. Among other failings by the
City, the City:
(a) Should have prepared, circulated for review and comment and adopted an

16 environmental impact report that analyzed and mitigated all of the significant environmental impacts
raised by Petitioner and other members of the public prior to and during the public hearings;
17 (b) Failed to adequately disclose or analyze the significant environmental impäcts
18 that will result from the development of the Project, including but not limited to the environmental

9 impacts from the following: (i) failure of the Project to be consistent with the general plan; excessive
20 water demands; (iii) excessive energy demands; (iv) contamination of storm water and sanitary
21 sewer discharge; (v) contamination of air quality; (vi) significant impacts on public health, putting
S&HNNC significant strain on local medical facilities; (vii) significant impacts on traffic safety; and (viii)
significant increases in local crime and pressure on police resources. In addition, the MND did not
study any cumulative impacts, and Petitioner alleges that if an environmental impact report is
required, there will also be several cumulatively considerable impacts by the Project on all of the
above identified environmental impacts.
(c) Improperly deferred the analysis of impacts and the definition of and
28 implementation of mitigation measures;

6
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

(d) Failed to adopt all feasible mitigation measures and failed to adequately
mitigate environmental impacts from the development of the Project; and

(e)

approvals. Failed to adopt legally adequate findings as required by law with regard to the

32. CEQA requires every lead agency to provide a good faith, reasoned analysis in
response to comments received on a mitigated negative declaration, to address (in detail)
recommendations and objections raised by comments submitted to the lead agency, and to explain

9 why specific comments and objections, especially those of experts, were not accepted by the lead

10 agency. The MND fails to respond adequately to comments made by Petitioner and other members

11 of the public to the MND. Moreover, the City Council in denying the appeal failed entirely to
consider the substantial evidence of significant impacts presented by Petitioner in its September 5,
2018 letter and at the September 11 City Council meeting.

33

14 The written and oral testimony of Petitioner constitute a fair argument that there is a

15 reasonable probability that the Project will create several significant environmental impacts.

34

16 As a result of the City's violations of CEQA, Petitioner and the public have been

17 harmed, because, prior to the City's approval of the Project and adoption by the City of the MND,

8 Petitioner and other members of the public were not fully informed about the significant

19 environmental impacts that could occur from the development of the Project.

35.

20 Petitioner and members of the public will suffer irreparable harm if the relief

21 requested in this Petitión is not granted by this Court, and the Project is constructed in the absence of

SUu an environmental impact report for the Project that complies with the applicable provisions of CEQA
and other applicable laws.
SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION

25 36. (Violation of CEQA and CEQA Guidelines; Inadequate Findings)

26 Petitioner realleges and incorporates herein by reference the allegations of Paragraphs
through 35 inclusive in this Petition.
27 37.
28 CEQA requires that the findings made by a lead agency in connection with the
approval of a project must be supported by substantial evidence in the administrative record. CEQA

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

further requires that a lead agency provide an explanation of how the evidence in the record supports
the conclusions it has made.

38. The City violated CEQA by adopting findings that are inadequate as a matter of law,
because the findings are not supported by substantial evidence in the record, including but not
limited to the following

(a) The determination that certain impacts would be less than significant and/or
that the adopted mitigation measures would avoid or lessen the Project's effects on the environment;
(b) The determination that the Project is not in conflict with the City's general

9 plan; and

10 (c) The proposed mitigation measures would reduce all identified significant
dt impacts to a level that is less than significant.

39. The MND does not discuss any impact on public safety or police resources, other
than to indicate that the Project will implement its own security measures.
40. As a result of the defects described above, the City prejudicially abused its discretion
5 by adopting findings that do not comply with the requirements of CEQA. Therefore, the City also

16 prejudicially abused its discretion by granting approvals for the Project based upon defective and
17 inadequate findings. Accordingly, the City's approval of the Project and its certification of the

18 MND must be set aside.

THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION 19

(Denial of Petitioner's Due Process) 20

6A8 41. Petitioner realleges and incorporates herein by reference the allegations of Paragraphs
through 40 inclusive in this Petition,

42. Under the City' Municipal Code, duc process and basic fairness all require that the
24 City Council hearing be conducted without hostile harassment and interruption by members of the
25 City Council during presentation of testimony and comments regarding the Project.

26 43. Fundamentally, the Constitutional principle of due process "requires reasonable
27 notice and an opportunity to be heard before deprivation of a significant property interest." (Horn y.
28 County of Ventura (1979) 24 Cal.3d 605, 617, 612.) "Due process is flexible and calls for such
8
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

procedural protections as the particular situation demands." (Machado v. State Water Resources
Control Board (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 720, 725.) Whether the administrative procedures provided
were constitutionally sufficient requires a balance of the government and private interests affected.
(Id.)

44. In this matter, the City Council effectively denied Petitioner the right to be heard at
the City Council meeting. Certain members of the City Council demonstrated a curious bias and
interest in opposing, interrupting and harassing Petitioner during Petitioner's presentation before the

10 86888 6256UEONE City Council. For example, one council member screamed "You have no business down here!!" as
Petitioner tried to discuss significant environmental impacts from the Project that need further study
or mitigation.

45. Compounding this act of denial of due process, the City Council then failed to
adequately deliberate on the issues raised by the public including by Petitioner, rapidly moving on
after Petitioner's presentation to other agenda items without any discussion, and then coming back
some time later and approving the Project - again without any discussion at all of the significant
environmental impacts identified by Petitioner in its written and oral testimony that was before the
decision makers.

46. Petitioner was prejudiced by these actions of the City Council and their failure to
grant Petitioner the right to be heard without interruption, harassment and/or bias.
PRAYER FOR RELIEF
WHERBFORE, Petitioner respectfully prays for judgment against the Respondents, and each
of them, as follows:

25 For a peremptory writ of mandamus directing Respondents, the City and the City

& Council, to vacate and set aside the approval of the Project, the actions adopting the MND. and all
related approvals.

2

27 28 That this court issue i writ of mandate suspending the authority of Respondents, the
City and the City Council, theit officers, employees, agents, boards, commissions and other
subdivisions, to grant any authority, permits or entitlements as part of the Project (including without
limitation to any of the Real Party in Interest) until after the City requires the Developer to prepare a
9
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

full environmental impact report to fully analyze all significant environmental impacts from the
Project, consistent with the requirements of CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines, and all other applicable

3 laws. and until a full set of legally adequate findings are made by the City as required by law.
That this Court issue a temporary restraining order and a permanent injunction
enjoining Respondents, the City and the City Council, their officers, employees, agents, boards,
commissions and other subdivisions, as well as the Real Party in Interest, from undertaking any
activities, demolition, grading or construction pursuant to the City's approvals as described herein,
prior to the City's full compliance with CEQA, the City's municipal code, and other applicable laws.

5

11
5ETEEN 6 For attorney's fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Code section 1021.5.
For costs of suit; and
For such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.

DATED: October 11, 2018
LAW OFFICE OF GURJIT SINGH

By: Cayt
Gurjit Singh S

S&UMueEg 28

10 VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

VERIFICATION

am STATE OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF ORANGE
I, J. Michael Goolsby, declare:
the President of BETTER NEIGHBORHOODS INC, a California corporation, the
Petitioner in this action. I am authorized to make this verification on behalf of Petitioner. I have
read the foregoing Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for Injunctive Relief and I am

20 & H&MHKHXXSHSESFSS=S 10 familiar with its contents. The same is true of my own knowledge, except as to those matters which
are therein stated on information and belief and as to those matters, I believe them to be true.

1S true and correct. I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing

Executed at Irvine, California on the 11th day of October, 2018

. Miskael Goolaby J. MICHAEL GOOLSBY

11 VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

EXHIBIT A

Law Office of Gurjit Singh REAL ESTATE LAW

399 N. Garey Ave., Second Floor Pomona, CA. 91767

Telephone (818) 396-6841 Singh@lawsingh.com

September 13, 2018

Mallory Crecelius VIA EMAIL AND FED-EX
Interim City Manager & City Clerk
N. Broadway
Blythe, CA 92225
Email: msutterfield@oitvofblythe.ca.gov

Re: Notice of Intent to Sue
Palo Verde Center Cannabis (the "Project")

Dear Ms. Crecelius,

This office represents Better Neighborhoods Inc. with respect to the above-referenced Project.
Please take notice that, under Public Resources Code Section 21167.5, Better Neighborhoods intends to file a petition, inter alia, under the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act against respondent the City of Blythe in connection with the Project.

Very truly yours,
Gmyt
Gurjit Singh, Esq.

EXHIBIT B

Datter tNEIGHBORHOODS

17901 Von Karman Ave, Suite 600
Irvine, CA 92614
(949) 556-8714
www.better-neighborhoods.com/

September 5, 2018

Mallory Crecelius
Interim City Manager & City Clerk 235 N. Broadway
Blythe, Ca 92225 Via email: msutterfield@cityofblythe.ca.gov

Re; Palo Verde Center Cannabis (the "Project")

Dear Ms. Crecelius,

Thank you for the opportunity to provide questions and comments regarding the above-referenced proposed Project.
Better Neighborhoods Inc. is an organization established to help people have a voice in local development decisions that can be heard equally to that of the planners and developers, to encourage smart growth that is consistent with the needs of the community, to protect the natural environment and our places of historical and esthetic significance, to support affordable housing, and to balance the needs for growth and livable cities.

The Project

The Applicant, Palo Verde Center LLC, is proposing to develop a massive indoor pot cultivation facility on 78.41 acres, to include four one-story buildings, each of which consists of 150,000 square feet. Each of the four buildings will provide for cultivation spaces ranging from under 10,000 square-feet up 22,000 square-fect, approximately 2,000 square-feet of trimming arca, and 1,000 square-feet of office and storage space. The proposed General Plan Amendment (GPA) and

Ms. Mallory Crecelius
Re: Palo Verde Center Project
September 5, 2018 Page 2

zoning change (ZC) would apply "General Commercial" designations to the property to replace the existing "Specific Pian Resort" designations.

We have some questions and concerns, as discussed in more detail below. In short, we believe that additional study is necessary on several issues to determine whether they might create significant environmental impacts resulting from the Project, and whether feasible mitigation measures can be implemented that would reduce the identified significant impacts to a less than significant level.
Land Use and Planning
It doesn't appear that the City can make the findings required by CEQA regarding land use. The report ignores several policies in the City's General Plan with which the proposed Project conflicts, including those relating to water resources, wastewater, and energy conservation.

Electricity and GHG

There are many documented reports and studies that have shown that indoor cannabis facilities such
as the Project cause significant environmental impacts, including that they are the most energy- intensive agricultural product in the U.S., that they require an extraordinary amount of electricity to
operate which always leads to greenhouse gas (GHG) pollution that increases carbon emissions
and, by extension, global warming,
The city has not studied or addressed the potential impact the Project will have on the grid and on any corresponding impact to local residents and businesses, nor has it adequately studied and mitigated the increased GHG and carbon emissions from this gigantic grow facility.
Notably, page 6 of the MND reveals that the Applicant originally wanted to construct a much larger Project on the site, but had to scale down to the present size due to inadequate electrical power supply| Nevertheless, we discover, also on Page 6, that there is presently not enough capacity to support the current Project right now or in the future - and that Applicant plans to develop its own power supply!

"The [Applicant is] in the process of consulting with SCE and the Southern California Gas Company regarding power needs and due to capacity limitations, plan[s] to develop electrical power using gas-fired generators (28 MW capacity) on-site rather than connecting to the SCB system.
Does this mean the entire Project will be supported by massive industrial complex of gas-fired generators? Or only partially? Does the City have any idea what will be the scale and impact of such gas-fired generators? Gas or diesel? Has this been studied? It appears not.

Ms. Mallory Crecelius
Re: Palo Verde Center Project September 5, 2018
Page 3

Pollutants/Toxics

Heavy metal and toxins from lighting materials are an additional form of environmental risk from indoor cannabis cultivation. High-intensity discharge (HID) bulbs common in this industry are not recyclable and each bulb contains approximately 30 mg of mercury and other toxins. Mercury is a neurotoxin, and is recognized as extremely toxic, particularly in gaseous form. This potentially significant impact has not been addressed or mitigated.
Wastewater Discharge
Grow facilities such as the Project create massive amounts of polluted wastewater. There was no meaningful discussion or study of the sufficiency of nearby sewer capacity and downstream sewage treatment capacity that would be impacted by the Project. Merely stating that BMP's, or "Best Management Practices" will be utilized is not reassuring. Further, it is not at all clear whether wastewater discharge requirements related to water quality have been properly met by the Project Applicant. According to the State Water Resources Control Board, Cannabis Cultivation Policy, Principles and Guidelines for Cannabis Cultivation, October 2017, these requirements are very complicated, and the record is not clear whether and how the Applicant has or will comply,
There also needs to be an analysis from public works confirming that the sewer capacity is adequate to handle the effluent from this Project.
Crime and Impact on Public Services
There are numerous studies and news reports showing that these facilities lead to more crime, more public health emergencies, and more strain on the police and fire departments, and that they put the public and law enforcement at serious risk. The city has not studied whether it has the resources
needed to combat the anticipated level of crime and health emergencies the Project will create -let alone the cumulative impacts of all other similar facilities that may be planned in the future.

Public Health

It doosn't appear that the City has studied the potentially significant and detrimental impacts to publie health that the facilities like the Project may create, specifically regarding reported increases in hospitalizations, exposure to children, workplace accidents, impaired drivers and increased traffic
deaths.

Conclusion

To be olear, we are not asking that the City deny the Project outright, only that the City either (1) remand the Project back to the Planning Department to reconsider the issues we have raised, or (2) that the City defer consideration of the Project until the Applicant can show the City (and Better Neighborhoods) that none of the potentially substantial environmental impacts we have identified will occur.

Ms. Mallory Crecelius Re: Palo Verde Center Project September 5, 2018
Page 4

Sincerely,
9 Michaol Goolaby Michael Goolsby
President and CEO
Better Neighborhoods, Inc.

PROOF OF SERVICE

am employed in the County of Los Angeles, California. am over the age of 18 and not a party to the foregoing action. My business address is 399 N. Garey Ave., Second Floor Pomona CA 91767.

On October 17, 2018 I served the foregoing documents:

NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
CALIFORNIA OF VERIFIED (CEQA) PETITION FOR
WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR
INJUNCTIVE AND DECLARATORY RELIEF; and
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE AND
DECLARATORY RELIEF

[X] By addressing the envelopes as set forth below, placing a true and correct copy(ies) thereof in a sealed envelope with postage affixed hereon fully prepaid in the United
States.

[] By placing the document(s) listed above in a sealed FEDERAL EXPRESS envelope and affixing a pre-paid air bill, and causing the envelope to be delivered as set forth below.

Office of the Attorney General Mallory Crecelius
300 South Spring Street City Clerk
Los Angeles, CA 90013-1230 City of Blythe
235 N. Broadway Blythe, California 92225
Palo Verde Center LLC
Steven T. Gregory
5775 Balm Ridge Rd
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401

I am "readily familiar" with the firm's practice of collection and processing correspondence for mailing. Under that practice, all mail is deposited with the U.S. Postal Service or Federal Express on the same day with postage thereon, fully prepaid at Pomona, California, in the
ordinary course of business.

I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of California that the foregoing is
true and correct.

Executed on October 17, 2018

By:_ P. k
Paramjit Kaur

e E 03A3038 c S0T7VX3N39 A3NJOLIY 100810Z NOV: AECETVEN 8 2010 BY:____________. * 1n0 g F EE8 9597 S3739N 5

ENEONV SOT TWISNTO XNUOLIY 04:lWV 61 130 8107
DNIA/3038 DHI13X000