1 Jerry Bernhaut, Esq. SB# 206264 23 Woodgreen Street 2 Santa Rosa, CA 95409 ENDORSED Tel. (707) 595-1852
3 Email: J3bernhaut@gmail.com FILED

4 Jack Silver, Esq. SB # 160575 JUN 18 2019
Law Office of Jack Silver
5 708 Gravenstein Hwy No. # 407 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
Sebastopol, CA 95472 COUNTY OF SONOMA
6 Tel. (707) 528-8175 Email: jsilverenvironmental@gmail.com
7
Attorneys for Petitioner
8 CALIFORNIA RIVER WATCH

9

10 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

11 IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF SONOMA
12 CALIFORNIA RIVER WATCH, an IRC Case No.SCV 264647

13 Section 501(c)(3), non-profit, public benefit corporation, VERIFIED COMPLAINT FOR
DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE
14 Petitioner, RELIEF AND PETITION FOR WRIT
V. OF MANDATE
15
CITY OF HEALDSBURG, (Cal. Code. Civ. Proc. § 1094.5) California Environmental Quality Act (Cal. 16
Respondent. Pub. Res. Code , 21000 et seq.)
17

18 Petitioner, CALIFORNIA RIVER WATCH ("Petitioner") as and for its Verified
19 Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate under the

20 California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") Cal. Pub. Res. Code § 21000 et seq., against

21 Respondent CITY OF HEALDSBURG (the "City") alleges the following:

22 I. BACKGROUND

23 1. On May 20, 2019, the City adopted a Resolution Certifying the Final Environmental
24 Impact Report ("FEIR") For The North Entry Area Plan Project, Adopting CEQA Findings,
25 Adopting A Mitigation Monitoring And Reporting Plan, and Adopting a Statement Of
26 Overriding Considerations. The purpose of the North Entry Area Plan ("NEAP" or "Plan") also
27 referred to as a "project" in the Draft Environmental Impact Report ("DEIR") is to "provide
28 policy guidelines and development standards for the future construction and operation of a

1

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 mixed-use community on the North Village site." (DEIR ES-1) On May 21, 2019, the City filed

2 a Notice of Determination for the certification of the FEIR in the Office of the County Clerk for
3 the County of Sonoma and the California State Office of Planning and Research. The DEIR for
4 the Plan is incorporated into the FEIR.
5 2. The FEIR concludes that the greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions during the operation of
6 the Plan would be less than significant with mitigation incorporated. (DEIR 3.4-58) However,

7 the City certified an FEIR that fails to accurately assess the GHG emissions associated with
8 proposed land use activities within the boundaries of the NEAP planning area. The FEIR

9 adopted invalid findings a of significance as a basis for determining that the NEAP is consistent
10 with Statewide emissions reduction goals. The FEIR also relies, in its finding of less than

11 significant GHG impacts, on GHG mitigation measures that lack clearly defined, enforceable
12 performance based standards and are impermissibly deferred.
13 3. For all of the above reasons, the City's finding that the implementation of the NEAP

14 would result in less than significant GHG emissions is unsupported by substantial evidence in

15 light of the entire record.

16 II. INTRODUCTION

17 A. Failure To Provide an Accurate Assessment of GHG Emissions Which Would Result

18 From Implementation of the NEAP

19 4. According to Table 2-2: Specific Development Summary, the NEAP includes a proposed

20 hotel with 130 guest rooms (DEIR 2-9). The FEIR fails to account for reasonably foresecable
21 GHG emissions from vehicle miles traveled ("VMT") by tourists staying at the proposed hotel,

22 traveling from regional and global points of origin to the City of Healdsburg, and returning to

23 their point of origin. Of particular concern is the high volume of GHG emissions from air travel
24 by tourists visiting wine country destinations such as the City of Healdsburg. The proposed hotel

25 provides additional capacity for tourist lodgings. There is ample evidence readily available
26 demonstrating that increased global air travel is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the
27 Plan's proposed hotel.

28 5. When preparing an Environmental Impact Report ("EIR") for a project, the EIR must

2

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 consider all sources of GHG emissions resulting from activities associated with the project.

2 GHG emissions which must be acknowledged, addressed and mitigated include indirect,

3 long-term, and long-range emissions such as tourist travel. These emissions are part of a major

4 project in the Plan the FEIR is analyzing and are appropriate for inclusion in the FEIR.

5 6. The FEIR does not demonstrate, based on substantial evidence, that it would be

6 practically infeasible to estimate the GHG emissions from VMT by tourists staying at the
7 proposed hotel.

8 7. Thus the City prejudicially abused its discretion by failing to proceed as required by law

9 in certifying an FEIR which provided an inaccurate assessment of GHG emissions which would
10 result from implementation of the NEAP.

11 B. Adopting Invalid Significance Findings as a Basis for Consistency With Statewide Emissions Goals
12

13 8. To evaluate the GHG emissions implications of the NEAP, the FEIR relies on the Plan's
14 consistency with the GHG emission reduction measures included in a legally invalid Sonoma
15 County Regional Climate Action Plan ("CAP") adopted by the City in a March, 2018 Resolution.

16 9. On July 20, 2017, the Sonoma County Superior Court in Case No. SCV-259242,
17 California River Watch v. County of Sonoma, et al, issued its Order Granting Petition for Writ
18 of Mandate invalidating the CAP and certification of its EIR. Notwithstanding the CAP's lack
19 a of validity as a legal document, the FEIR relies on the NEAP's alleged consistency with GHG

20 mitigation measures in the CAP as a basis for finding the NEAP to be consistent with Statewide

21 emissions reduction goals set out in Assembly Bill 32 and the Air Resources Board Scoping
22 Plan. (DEIR 3.4-36). This alleged consistency is, at least in part, the basis for the finding that

23 the GHG emissions impact of the NEAP would be less than significant.

24 10. The FEIR asserts the "ideas contained in the Climate Action Plan to advance smart land

25 use and resource efficiency are still valid and aligned with the climate action strategies stated

26 in the Scoping Plan to reach the State's overall GHG reduction goals." (DEIR 3.4-36). This
27 directly contradicts this Court's ruling in SCV-259242 that the GHG reduction claims in the
28 CAP are unsupported by substantial evidence in the record. "The Court finds there is

3

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 insufficient information in the administrative record to support the factual conclusion that the
2 CAP will achieve its fundamental purpose of reducing Respondent's countywide GHG emissions

3 to the stated target of 25% below 1990 levels by 2020." (July 20, 2017 Order Granting Petition

4 for Writ of Mandate, at p. 2).

5 11. Thus the City, in certifying an FEIR which adopted invalid significance findings to
6 support the conclusion that the NEAP is consistent with Statewide emissions reduction goals,
7 prejudicially abused its discretion by not proceeding as required by law.

8 C. Inadequate Mitigation Analysis
9 12. The FEIR also relies on additional GHG mitigation measures that lack clearly defined,
10 enforceable performance based standards and are impermissibly deferred. Confusingly, after

11 finding the NEAP is consistent with mitigation measures in the CAP, the GHG impacts analysis
12 finds as follows:

13 In summary, although the proposed plan would not conflict with the GHG reduction measures included in the CAP, the CAP would not be considered a
14 qualified GHG reduction plan for the purposes of CEQA. Therefore, since the

15 Climate Action Plan was adopted to meet the goals of AB 32, the proposed plan is also evaluated for consistency with the State plans to determine whether it

16 would conflict with any other applicable plan, policy, or regulation adopted by the City for the purpose of reducing GHG emissions. As discussed in Impact GHG-1, GHG emissions would exceed the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines recommended
17 thresholds of significance. As a result, the proposed plan could conflict with

18 applicable plan, policy or regulation adopted by the City to reduce the emissions of GHGs. The impact would be potentially significant. However, the GHG

19 emissions during operation would not exceed BAAQMD's threshold of significance with implementation of MM GHG-1 (see Table 3.4-6). The impact

20 would be less than significant with mitigation incorporated. (DEIR 3.4-58).

21 13. The measures included in MM GHG-1 are deferred to future documentation that proposed

22 projects would meet the BAAQMD recommended GHG threshold of significance or achieve
23 additional GHG reductions through implementation of one or more of a list of additional GHG

24 reduction measures. The list of additional measures lack clearly defined performance based

25 standards, discussed in detail below.

26 14. Thus the City, in certifying an FEIR which fails to specify mitigation measures that
27 substantial evidence demonstrates would achieve the specified emissions levels, prejudicially
28 abused its discretion by not proceeding as required by law.

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 III. GENERAL ALLEGATIONS

2 A. Parties

3 15. Petitioner California River Watch is an Internal Revenue Code § 501(c)(3) non-profit,

4 public benefit corporation organized under the laws of the State of California, with headquarters

5 located in Sebastopol, California, and a mailing address of 290 South Main Street, #817,

6 Sebastopol, Calif. 95472. Petitioner is dedicated to protecting, enhancing, and helping to restore
7 surface water and groundwaters of California including coastal waters, rivers, creeks, streams,

8 wetlands, vernal pools, aquifers and associated environs, biota, flora and fauna, and educating
9 the public concerning environmental issues associated with these environs. A warming climate
10 has and will negatively impact the water quality of these water bodies and associated environs,

11 biota, flora and fauna.

12 16. Respondent City of Healdsburg, is a municipality formed under the laws of the State of
13 California, with administrative offices located at 401Grove Street Healdsburg, California,
14 95448.

15 B. Jurisdiction

16 17. Petitioner seeks review by and relief from this Court under Pub. Res. Code §§ 21168 or
17 21168.5, as applicable; and Code of Civ. Proc. §§ 1060 et seq. and 1084 et seq., among other
18 provisions of law.
19 C. Standing

20 18. Petitioner and its members are beneficially interested in the City's full compliance with
21 the law regarding the City's approval of the NEAP and certification of the FEIR. The personal,
22 recreational and aesthetic interests of Petitioner and the persons associated with Petitioner will

23 be severely injured with respect to cumulative effects of GHG emissions if the NEAP is allowed
24 to proceed as planned. The climate crisis faced by humanity poses an imminent existential threat
25 to the sustainability of human life and health and to the survival of other species. A warming
26 climate has and will negatively impact water quality, availability, and aquatic habitat. Extreme
27 droughts have diminished flow levels in creeks, streams, and rivers which are habitat for
28| endangered species. Extreme heat raises water temperature to levels adverse to the survival of

5

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

fisheries. The GHG emissions reasonably foreseeable from approval of the NEAP are directly
2 harmful to Petitioner's interest in the surface waters and groundwaters of California.

3 19. Petitioner is within the class of persons beneficially interested in and aggrieved by the

4 City's certification of the FEIR and approval of the NEAP. Petitioner's membership includes
5 individuals who have expressed their concerns and objections to the approval of the NEAP at

6 meetings and in correspondence to the City. Before certifying the FEIR and approving the

7 NEAP, the City owed a mandatory duty to comply with the legal duties which Petitioner alleges

8 were violated. Petitioner has the right to enforce the mandatory duties which the CEQA imposes

9 on the City.
10 D. Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies

11 20. Petitioner has exhausted all available administrative remedies in that the City's approval
12 of the NEAP is final and not subject to further administrative appeal procedures.
13 21. In accordance with Pub. Res. Code § 21177(b) and § 21177(c), Petitioner and its members
14 objected to the approval of the NEAP orally or in writing during the public comment period or
15 prior to the close of the public hearing on the project before the May 21, 2019 filing of a Notice
16 of Determination by the City.

17 22. In accordance with Pub. Res. Code § 21177(a), all alleged grounds for non-compliance
18 with CEQA, were presented to the City during the public-comment period prior to the close of
19 the public hearing on the FEIR.

20 E. Notice Requirements
21 23. A Notice of Determination for the Project was filed by the City with the Office of the
22 County Clerk for the County of Sonoma on or about May 21, 2019. Petitioner brings this
23 Complaint and Petition for Writ of Mandate not more than thirty (30) days after the filing of the
24 Notice of Determination as required by Pub. Res. Code § 21167(c).
25 24. Petitioner has caused a Notice of Intent to File Suit to be served on the City as required

26 by Pub. Res. Code § 21167.5. A true and correct copy of the Notice of Intent to File Suit is
27 attached hereto as Exhibit A.

28 25. Petitioner will have caused a copy of this pleading to be served on the Office of the

6

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 Attorney General for the State of California not more than ten (10) days after the commencement

2 of this proceeding, as required by Pub. Res. Code § 21167.7 and Code of Civ. Proc. § 388.

3 F. Private Attorney General Doctrine

4 26. Petitioner brings this action as a private attorney general pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.

5 § 1021.5 to enforce important rights affecting the public interest. Issuance of the relief requested

6 herein will confer a significant benefit on a large class of persons by ensuring that the City does

7 not approve the current NEAP without first complying with CEQA. The necessity and financial

8 burden of enforcement are such as to make an award of attorneys' fees appropriate in this

9 proceeding. Absent this timely enforcement action by Petitioner, the NEAP might otherwise be
10 deemed lawfully approved, despite the City's failure to comply with CEQA.

11 27. At all times mentioned herein, the City has been able to deny the approval and operation
12 of the NEAP at issue. Despite such ability, and despite Petitioner's demand for denial, the City
13 has failed and continues to fail to perform its duty under the law to deny the approval and
14 operation of the NEAP.
15 28. If the City is not ordered to withdraw its approval of the NEAP, the NEAP will become
16 a specific area plan providing policy guidelines and development standards for the future
17 construction and operation of a mixed-use community on the North Village site in the City of
18 Healdsburg. As such, the FEIR will be relied on by the City of Healdsburg when considering
19 a specific proposal for development in the North Village site. (DEIR ES-2). Thus, the NEAP
20 FEIR which is based on inadequate assessment of cumulatively significant GHG emissions, will

21 become a basis for approving future projects thereby causing irreversible damage to
22 environmental values.

23 IV. CAUSES OF ACTION

24 A. FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION - CEQA - Inadequate Assessment of GHG Emissions

25 Impacts

26 Petitioner incorporates by reference all of the allegations made in the previous paragraphs
27 as if separately set forth herein.
28 29. CEQA Guidelines $15064.4 requires that a lead agency prepare an EIR if there is

7

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 substantial evidence that the GHG emissions of a particular project are cumulatively
2 considerable.

3 30. Table 2-2 in the DEIR specifically breaks down the proposed residential and
4 non-residential land uses in the Plan to establish a maximum development scenario which is used

5 for the technical analyses in the DEIR. Those proposed land uses include: 1) Multi-family

6 Residences 290 units (435,000 gross square feet (*gsf')), 2) Hotel 130 rooms (130,000 gsf),

7 3) Commercial/Professional Services 40,000 gsf, and 4) Retail Uses 30,000 gsf (DEIR 2-8).
8 31. There is no accounting in the DEIR for GHG emissions resulting from tourists reasonably

9 expected to be staying at the proposed hotel, traveling from their point of origin to the City of
10| Healdsburg, and returning to their point of origin. The failure of the EIR to account for these
11 emissions constitutes a failure to present a reasonably complete accounting of the proposed

12 project's GHG impacts as required by the CEQA. The EIR completely disregards the thousands
13 of metric tons of GHG emissions which would be generated by hotel guests traveling by air from
14 global points of origin. The GHG emissions from global air travel to the hotel are a reasonably
15 foreseeable, intended consequence of the operation of the proposed hotel. It is the commercial
16 purpose of the proposed hotel to attract global as well as regional patronage. There is also no

17 accounting for GHG emissions from travel by land originating beyond City of Healdsburg
18 boundaries. The CEQA Guidelines and case law are clear that such readily foreseeable and
19 indirect consequences of a project must be accounted for and mitigated if significant.
20 32. When preparing the EIR for a project, the EIR must consider all sources of GHG

21 emissions resulting from the activities associated with the project. GHG emissions which must

22 be acknowledged, addressed and mitigated include indirect, long-term and long-range GHG

23 emissions such as those related to tourist travel. These emissions are part of the project the EIR

24 is analyzing and are appropriate for inclusion in the EIR. Under CEQA, a "project" is defined

25 as "the whole of an action, which has a potential for resulting in either a direct physical change
26 in the environment, or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment ..

27 Tuolumne County Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. V. City of Sonora (2007) 155 Cal.
28 App.4th 1214, 1222 (citing CEQA Guidelines § 15378 (a).)

8

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

~.

- 33. The principle that GHG emissions from global tourist travel and wine distribution must

2 be accounted for in EIRs for new hotels, vineyards, and wineries, unless there is a showing of
3 infeasibility of such accounting, has been well established locally in the ruling in California

4 River Watch v. County of Sonoma, et al, SCV-259242, Sonoma County Superior Court (2017),

5 which found that the Respondent in that case "...had a feasible ability to include the additional

6 GHG data" related to air-travel and other travel induced emissions. (July 20, 2017, Order

7 Granting Petition for Writ of Mandate, at p. 16).

8 34. In response to Petitioner's comments, the FEIR states,

9 It is not possible for a proposed project or plan to estimate or collect data on

10 anticipated future tourist or air travel plans for a specific hotel project that has yet to be proposed, constructed and operated. The origin of travelers to the hotel could

11 vary substantially, and there is no way to accurately determine either that origin or whether the hotel would induce additional global travel to the area. Rather, it

12 is perhaps more likely that tourists would be traveling to the area for other local attractions, and this hotel component of the proposed plan would provide an
13 alternative for lodging those tourists that are already traveling to the area. (FEIR 3-51).

14 However, the assessment of reasonably foreseeable GHG emissions associated with the
15 proposed hotel does not require speculation regarding the future plans or motivation for travel
16 for anyone. The proposed hotel would provide additional tourist lodging capacity. The
17 information for making reasonable estimates of air travel and land travel generally associated
18 with the proposed hotel, based on data showing clearly established patterns, is available if the
19 lead agency had a good faith interest in full disclosure as mandated by CEQA. Such data is
20 developed and used commonly for commercial investment purposes. Another likely source of
21 such information is the data underlying the recent application for a $20 million grant a from the
22 Federal Aviation Administration for a Sonoma County Airport terminal expansion. The FEIR
23 could then calculate the proportional contribution of the increased capacity from the proposed
24 130-room hotel to those reasonably foreseeable VMT induced emissions. Air travel, a major
25 source of GHG emissions, is completely omitted in the estimate of GHG emissions associated
26 with the proposed hotel. Emissions from VMT by land from points beyond the boundaries of the
27 City of Healdsburg is also omitted.
28 35. Judicial precedent is clear that the investigative burden rests with the government agency,

9

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 not the public, to provide relevant information. See Kings County Farm Bureau V. City of
2 Hanford (1990) 221 Cal. App. 3d 692, 724. Nevertheless, a feasible methodology for estimating

3 and allocating aviation emissions to a proposed hotel was submitted in public comments by

4 Petitioner and by Tom Conlon, a recognized expert in data analysis and energy efficiency.
5 36. The FEIR continuing, in response to Petitioner's comments states:

6 ..Therefore, it is more appropriate that such emissions be addressed on a regional level through a Climate Action Plan or similar document. (FEIR 3-51).
7

8 As referenced above, GHG emissions generated by activities in Sonoma County were

9 addressed at a regional level in the CAP. This Court, in its July 20, 2017 ruling in California
10 River Watch v. County of Sonoma, et al, found the assessment of emissions in the CAP EIR to

11 be inadequate specifically by failing to account for trans-boundary emissions including air travel,

12 or showing the infeasibility of such accounting. It is more than a little disingenuous for the
13 NEAP FEIR to claim a regional approach is more appropriate in light of that decision. As stated
14 above, the data for a regional assessment of trans-boundary VMT induced GHG emissions from

15 tourist-based travel is readily available. The proportional contribution of emissions reasonably
16 allocated to an enabling land use decision such as a 130-room hotel providing additional hotel
17 lodging capacity, could be calculated. The simple reality is that both the County of Sonoma and
18 the City declined to make a good faith effort to reasonably estimate foreseeable emissions likely

19 to be induced by such land use decisions.
20 37. For the FEIR to satisfy the informational function of CEQA, it must present facts and

21 analyses which provide a clear analytical route taken by the City to reach the conclusion that

22 GHG emissions during operation of the NEAP, including a proposed 130-room hotel, would be

23 less than significant with mitigation incorporated.

24 38. Petitioner is informed and believes and on such information and belief alleges, that the

25 City, in approving the NEAP and certifying the FEIR which reaches conclusions based on an
26 understated assessment of GHG emissions likely to result from implementation of the NEAP,
27 failed to proceed in the manner required by law.

28 //

10

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 B. SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION (CEQA - Adopting Invalid Significance Findings)

2 Petitioner incorporates by reference all of the allegations made in the previous paragraphs

3 as if separately set forth herein.

4 39. To evaluate the GHG emissions likely to result from implementation of the NEAP, the

5 FEIR relies on the Plan's consistency with the GHG emission reduction measures included in

6 the legally invalid CAP that were adopted by the City in a March, 2018 Resolution. The FEIR

7 relies on the NEAP's alleged consistency with GHG mitigation measures in the CAP as a basis

8 for finding the NEAP to be consistent with Statewide emissions reduction goals in Assembly Bill

9 32 and the Air Resources Board Scoping Plan. (DEIR 3.4-36).

10 40. This Court's July 20, 2017 ruling in SCV-259242, California River Watch v. County of
11 Sonoma, et al set aside approval of the CAP and certification of the PEIR for failure to include
12 sufficient information to support the factual conclusion that the CAP would achieve its
13 fundamental purpose of reducing countywide GHG emissions to reduction levels consistent with

14 Assembly Bill 32. Despite this ruling, the NEAP FEIR claims "The ideas contained in the

15 Climate Action Plan to advance smart land use and resource efficiency are still valid and aligned
16 with the climate action strategies stated in the Scoping Plan to reach the State's overall GHG
17 reduction goals."(DEIR 3.4-36).
18 41. In response to Petitioner's comments, the FEIR states:

19 Both the qualitative and quantitative analyses in Draft EIR Section 3.4,

20 Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy, rely on State policies and BAAQMD recommended thresholds and are not based solely on consistency with the County

21 CAP. As clearly stated in the Draft EIR page 3.4-36, "[a]lthough the Climate Action Plan no longer serves as a CEQA tool, the document does still serve to

22 advise and coordinate countywide climate protection efforts." (FEIR 3-53)

23 The CAP, though legally invalid, does exist as an advisory document. The City has the
24 discretion to choose its sources of advice. However, it is a prejudicial abuse of discretion to rely,

25 even partially, on consistency with measures in the legally invalid CAP as a finding of
26 significance and as a basis for a finding of compliance with the State's overall GHG reduction

27 goals. The vagueness of the analysis of GHG emissions not being based solely on consistency
28 with the CAP, along with the other defects in the FEIR, violate the requirement that an EIR

11

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 provide a clear analytical route from the evidence in the record to the conclusion that the GHG
2 impacts of the implementation of the NEAP would be less than significant. Vineyard Area

3 Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. V. City of Rancho Cordova (2007) 40 Cal. 4th, 412.

4 42. Petitioner is informed and believes and on such information and belief alleges, that the

5 City, in approving the NEAP and certifying the FEIR which adopted invalid findings of

6 significance as a basis to conclude the NEAP is consistent with Statewide emissions reduction
7 goals, failed to proceed in the manner required by law.

8 C. THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION (CEQA - Inadequate Mitigation Analysis)
9 Petitioner incorporates by reference all of the allegations made in the previous paragraphs

10 as if separately set forth herein.

11 43. The FEIR also adopts CEQA Guidelines recommended by the Bay Area Air Quality
12 Management District (*BAAQMD") as to operational efficiency thresholds of significance to
13 determine if implementation of the NEAP would likely be consistent with Statewide emissions
14 reduction goals in Assembly Bill 32, "Therefore, BAAQMD's project- and plan-level
15 significance threshold for operational GHG generation was deemed appropriate to use when
16 determining the proposed plan's potential GHG impacts."(DEIR 3.4-35). The FEIR found that

17 although the proposed plan would not conflict with the GHG reduction measures included in the

18 CAP, GHG emissions would exceed the BAAQMD's recommended thresholds of significance.
19 However, the GHG emissions during operation would not exceed the BAAQMD's threshold of
20 significance with implementation of the GHG reduction measures in mitigation program MM
21 GHG-1. ( DEIR 3.4-58).

22 44. MM GHG-1 provides that the documentation showing each proposed project in the NEAP
23 planning area would meet the BAAQMD recommended thresholds of significance for individual

24 projects, is deferred to the time prior to the final discretionary approval for each project. The

25 manner of documentation is left undefined. Or, in the alternative, the deferred documentation
26 must show that the proposed project would achieve additional GHG emissions reductions
27 sufficient to meet the recommended thresholds through a combination of one or more additional
28 listed measures "...and/or other comparable measures approved by the City". (DEIR 3.4-46).

12

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 Those additional measures include:

2 a Commit to 100 percent renewable energy use through a combination of

3 use of on-site renewable energy and Healdsburg Electric's "Green Rate" program.

4 b. Install on-site solar panels to generate electricity for on-site electricity consumption.
5
C. Provide documentation how a ride-sharing program or other
6 transportation demand management program for hotel, office, and retail

7 employees would be implemented starting no later than 60 days after operations begin. Use of electric vehicles for ride-share program would further reduce GHG emissions.
8
d.
9 Install electric vehicle charging stations at workplaces and multi-family residences to promote the use of electric vehicles.

10 e. Use heat-pumps (rather than natural gas) for heating of residential and

11 commercial spaces.

f.
12 Purchase voluntary carbon credits from a verified GHG emissions credit broker in an amount sufficient to offset operational GHG emissions that exceed the recommended significance threshold over the lifetime of the
13 proposed development (or a reduced amount estimated based on

14 implementation of other measures listed above). Copies of the contract(s) shall be provided to the City. (NEAP EIR 3.4-46,47).

15 45. The terms of this documentation are much too vaguely defined to satisfy the requirement
16 for clearly defined, enforceable performance based standards as mandated by CEQA: either
17| demonstrate compliance with thresholds by undefined measures, or achieve additional GHG
18 emissions reductions through one or more listed measures or "other comparable measures
19 approved by the City." Of the listed additional measures identified in Paragraph 44 above, only
20 measure (a) contains clearly defined performance based standards. The remaining additional

21 measures lack necessary quantification to be clearly enforceable. Purchasing carbon credits with

22 no conditions other than coming from a qualified broker (measure (f)) begs questions regarding
23 the validity of the offsets. The dispositive language undermining the validity of the list of
24 additional GHG reduction measures is the qualifying phrase "other comparable measures

25 approved by the City." This violates both the prohibition against lack of clear performance
26 based standards ("other comparable measures") and the prohibition against deferred mitigation
27 approved by the City at the time of specific project approval.
28 46. Mitigation measures are required by law to be "fully enforceable." Pub. Res. Code 10P

13

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 2181.6(b); CEQA Guidelines § 15126.4(a)(2). Mitigation measures must be definite and
2 defined so that their effectiveness is ascertainable. See, e.g, San Franciscans for Reasonable

3 Growth v. City and County of San Francisco (1984) 151 Cal. App. 3d 61.

4 47. Petitioner is informed and believes and on such information and belief alleges, that the

5 City, in approving the NEAP and certifying the FEIR which failed to identify enforceable

6 mitigation measures based on clearly defined performance standards, failed to proceed in the

7 manner required by law.

8 D. FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION (CEQA- Inadequate Statement Of Overriding
Considerations)

10 Petitioner incorporates by reference all of the allegations made in the previous paragraphs
11 as if separately set forth herein.
12 48. On May 20, 2019, the City adopted a Resolution Certifying the FEIR, Adopting CEQA
13 Findings, a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Plan and a Statement of Overriding
14 Considerations. Section 15093 of the CEQA Guidelines requires the decision-making agency

15 to balance the economic, legal, social, technological, or other benefits of a proposed project
16 against its unavoidable environmental risks when determining whether to approve the project.
17 "CEQA also gives public agencies the authority to approve a project notwithstanding its
18 environmental impacts, if the agency determines it is not feasible to lessen or avoid the
19 significant effects (Pub. Resources Code, § 21002; Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, § 15043, subd. (a)),

20 and if specifically identified benefits of the project outweigh the unavoidable, significant

21 environmental impacts." City of Marina v. Board of Trustees, 109 Cal. App. 4th 1179, * 1186
22 (2003) Court of Appeal of California, Sixth Appellate District.
23 49. The Statement of Overriding Considerations adopted by the City identified significant and
24 unavoidable impacts related to traffic, as well as identifying specific considerations and benefits

25 of the Plan, each of which allegedly separately and independently outweigh the significant,
26 adverse impacts and is an overriding consideration independently warranting approval. These
27 benefits include revitalizing a currently under-utilized former industrial site, allowing for the
28 construction of a minimum of 250 dwelling units and a cap of 290 dwelling units, promoting

14

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

P

environmental sustainability by preserving surrounding hillsides, and providing construction
2 jobs.

3 50. Petitioner did not comment on traffic impacts and takes no position on the feasibility of
lessening or avoiding said impacts. The findings are improper and do not comply with CEQA

5 because the City determined only that the benefits outweighed the traffic impacts. However, the

6 City failed to specifically find that the project benefits override its GHG impacts to local air
7 quality and global climate. The Statement of Overriding Considerations does not consider the
8 trans-boundary GHG emissions from tourist travel which is the gravamen of Petitioner's
opposition to the NEAP. The determination by the City that the benefits of the NEAP outweigh
10 unavoidable, significant environmental impacts is further lacking in substantial evidence
11 considering the FEIR's reliance 01 the legally invalid CAP discussed previously, and inadequate
12 additional mitigation measures in determining the potential GHG emissions impacts from
13 implementation of the NEAP.

14 V. PRAYER FOR JUDGMENT

15 WHEREFORE, Petitioner prays for judgment as follows as to all Causes of Action:
16 1. For a Writ of Mandate ordering the City to set aside approval of the NEAP and
17 certification of the FEIR, based on the City's violations of CEQA and regulations set forth
18 therein.

19 2. For an Order directing the City to amend the NEAP consistent with the Court's rulings,
20 and to re-circulate the amended NEAP and FEIR for public comment.
21 3. For reasonable attorneys' fees pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. $1021.5.
22 4. For costs of suit.

23 5. For such other and further relief as this Court deems proper.

24

25 DATED: June 14, 2019 Respectfully submitted,
26 Jerry feubebutz Bernhaut 27 Attorney for Petitioner CALIFORNIA RIVER WATCH
28

15

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

DATED: June 14, 2019 Law Office of Jack Silver

2 by: Incka Jack Silver
3 Attorney for Petitioner CALIFORNIA RIVER WATCH

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

16

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

VERIFICATION 1

2 I. Lisa H. Mador, declare as follows:

3 am a member of California River Watch, a party to this action. I am informed and

4 believe, and on that ground allege, that the matters stated in the foregoing Verified Complaint

5 for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate are true.

6 declare under penalty of perjury, under the laws of the State of California that the

7 foregoing is true and correct. Executed this day of June 13, 2019, at Keizer, Oregon.

8 Mmlaa Lisa H. Mador a
10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

17

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

1 PROOF OF SERVICE

2 am employed in the County of Sonoma, State of California. I am over the age of

3 eighteen years and not a party to the within action. My business address is 23 Woodgreen Street,

4 Santa Rosa, CA 95409, located in Sonoma County.

5 On June 18, 2019, I served the attached Verified Complaint for Declaratory and

6 Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate on the following party(ies):

7
Xavier Becerra
8 Attorney General Office of the Attorney General 9 P.O. Box 944255

10 Sacramento, CA 94244-2550

11 [X] (BY FIRST CLASS MAIL) I placed a true copy in a sealed envelope, with postage thereon fully prepaid for first-class mail, for collection and mailing at Santa Rosa, California, following ordinary business practices. I am readily familiar with the practices of the Law Office of Jerry 12 Bernhaut for processing of correspondence; said practice being that in the ordinary course of

13 business, correspondence is deposited with the United States Postal Service the same day as it is placed for processing.

14 I declare under penalty of perjury, under the laws of the State of California, that the
15 foregoing is true and correct, and that this declaration was executed on June 18, 2019 at Santa

16 Rosa, California.

17

18 frey Borslait
19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

18

Verified Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief and Petition for Writ of Mandate

EXHIBIT A

LAW OFFICE OF JERRY BERNHAUT
23 Woodgreen Street
Santa Rosa, CA 95409
Telephone: (707) 595-1852
E-mail: j3bernhaut@gmail.com

Via Personal Delivery
and Electronic Mail
mderosa@ci.healdsburg.ca.us

June 17, 2019

Maya DeRosa
Planning and Building Department City of Healdsburg 401 Grove Street
Healdsburg, CA 95448

Re: Notice of Intent to Sue - City of Healdsburg North Entry Area Plan, Final Environmental Impact Report, Legal Compliance Under CEQA, Petition for Writ of Mandate

Dear Ms. DeRosa:

This letter provides written notice that my client California River Watch ("CRW") intends to file lawsuit against the City of Healdsburg (the "City") due to the City's May 20, 2019 decision to approve the City of Healdsburg North Entry Area Plan ("NEAP"). The City's approval of the NEAP and certification of the Final Environmental Impact Report ("FEIR") are in violation of the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") Pub. Res.
Code § 21000 et seq., and regulations pursuant thereto regarding CEQA Guidelines. Title 14,
Calif. Code of Regs. ("CCR") § 15000, et seq.

INTRODUCTION

Climate change is one of the most urgent global issues we face, with effects including loss of species, human hunger and death, and social and political disruption due to diminished food supply and loss of habitable terrain. We have seen direct effects locally in
extreme weather events including fires and floods of historic scale and intensity.

CEQA Guidelines a §15064.4 requires that a lead agency prepare an EIR if there is substantial evidence that the greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions of a particular project are cumulatively considerable. The NEAP is an area plan, also referred to as "project" in the
DraftEIR ("DEIR"), the purpose of which is to "provide policy guidelines and development

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 2

standards for the future construction and operation of a mixed-use community on the North Village site." (DEIR ES-1) At the May 20, 2019 City Council meeting, when the City decided to certify the FEIR and to adopt the NEAP as a general plan amendment, there was
some comment that the NEAP is a plan, rather than a project and thus the City was not required to analyze its potential environmental impacts to the same level of specificity as an individual project. It is well established law that "All EIR's must cover the same general content. (Guidelines, § 15120-15132.) The level of specificity of an EIR is determined by the nature of the project and the 'rule of reason'" Al Larson Boat Shop, Inc. v. Board of Harbor Commissioners, (I990) 18 Cal. App. 4th 729, 742 Court of Appeal of California, Second Appellate District, Division Three, citing Laurel Heights Improvement Assn. V. Regents of University of California (1988) Cal. Supreme Court, 47 Cal.3d at p. 407.

Table 2-2 in the DEIR specifically breaks down the proposed residential and non- residential land uses to establish a "maximum" development scenario, which is used for the technical analyses in the DEIR. The proposed land uses include: 1) Multi-family Residences
290 units (435,000 gsf'), 2) Hotel 130 rooms (130,000 gsf), 3) Commercial/Professional Services 40,000 gsf, and 4) Retail Uses 30,000 gsf (DEIR 2-8). Thus the DEIR purports to analyze the environmental impacts of the proposed land uses in this "maximum development scenario" as the total environmental impacts of the NEAP. The rule of reason here dictates that the estimation of impacts of the proposed land uses be at a level of specificity appropriate for a project EIR. Of specific concern to CRW is the lack of analysis of GHG emissions impacts resulting from vehicle miles traveled ("VMT") by guests at the proposed hotel traveling from their point of origin to Healdsburg and back to their point of origin. The failure of the EIR to account for these emissions constitutes a failure to present a reasonably complete accounting of the proposed project's GHG emissions impacts as required by CEQA. This is of particular concern in light of the intent of the DEIR that the City will rely on. the analysis in the NEAP EIR of impacts of the proposed land uses when considering future specific proposals: "It is anticipated that the plan and this EIR will be relied upon by the City when considering a specific proposal by Comstock Healdsburg, LLC to develop the North Village site in phases with senior residential, hotel, restaurant, retail, commercial office, and multi-family residential uses. 2 (DEIR ES-2).

gsf = gross square feet

2 The DEIR is incorporated into and certified as part of the FEIR.

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 3
CRW has reviewed the City's Responses To Comments Received on the DEIR, published in the FEIR. It is the opinion of CRW that the City's responses do not fully address the problems CRW and others identified. Counsel for CRW has clearly delineated
numerous substantial errors in the process of developing the NEAP, both in written
comments and oral testimony before the Healdsburg Planning Commission and City Council,

The City approved the NEAP May 20, 2019. On May 21, 2019, the City filed a Notice of Determination for the certification of the FEIR in the Office of the County Clerk for the County of Sonoma and the California State Office of Planning and Research. As you undoubtedly know, the posting of a Notice of Decision for this approval requires my client to act within 30 days to proceed with any challenge pursuant to CEQA. This letter serves
as notice pursuant to Publ. Res. Code § 21167.5 that CRW has authorized me to file suit on
its behalf in Sonoma County Superior Court within the 30 days. The action shall include
CEQA claims. Given the importance of the significant biological resources and human
health and well being that would be adversely affected by the NEAP, and the public interest nature of this case, CRW will seek to pursue a judgment that sets aside the approval of the
NEAP and certification of the FEIR, and will request attorney's fees under the private
attorney general provisions set forth in Code of Civ. Proc. §1021.5. We intend to pursue this action vigorously and without delay on behalf of CRW unless the City agrees to reverse its approval of the NEAP and certification of the FEIR.

CEQA LEGAL DEFICIENCIES

The grounds for my client's lawsuit include the following:

1) Inadequately assessing of GHG emissions attributable to the proposed hotel.

2) Reliance on the City's commitments to mitigation measures in a legally invalid
Sonoma County Climate Action Plan.

3) Adoption of additional mitigation measures in Mitigation Measures MM
GHG-1which lack specifically defined, enforceable performance based
standards, and which are impermissibly deferred under CEQA.

4) Adoption of an inadequate Statement of Overriding Considerations.

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 4

CRW contends the NEAP is illegal for the following reasons:

1. Failure to Provide an Accurate Assessment of GHG Emissions Which Would be
Generated by the Project - Transportation-Related Emissions

According to Table 2-2: Specific Development Summary, the NEAP includes a hotel with 130 guest rooms ( DEIR 2-9). However, there is no accounting in the DEIR for reasonably foreseeable greenhouse GHG emissions from VMT resulting from tourists staying
at the hotel, traveling from regional and global points of origin to Healdsburg, and returning to their point of origin. The failure of the FEIR to account for these emissions constitutes a failure to present a reasonably complete accounting of the proposed project's GHG impacts
as required by CEQA.

There is ample evidence readily available demonstrating that increased global air
travel is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the NEAP's proposed hotel. From The
Sonoma County Economic Development Board:
"Key tourism indicators show that travel is steadily increasing in Sonoma County
following the economic downturn beginning in 2007-2008 and the October 2017
wildfires. Destination spending, transient occupancy tax (TOT) receipts, industry earnings and local and state tax receipts are the highest that Sonoma County has seen in the last decade. Travelers from around the country and world are flocking to
- :29 Sonoma County and supporting the local economy through increased spending.'

According to Sonoma County Tourism, Official Destination Marketing Organization
of Sonoma County, Total passenger numbers for Sonoma County Airport reached an all-time high of 77,413 for the first quarter of 2019. This in all likelihood reflects an increase from
previous years due to recent additional direct flights to destinations including Colorado.

The proposed hotel will provide added capacity. The above information shows a clear trend for more long distance travel to Sonoma County. Judicial precedent is clear that it is not the burden of the public to provide relevant information not provided by the lead agency. See Kings County Farm Bureau v. City of Hanford (1990) 221 Cal. App. 3d 692, 724. However, the above information is provided as prima facie evidence of the need for the FEIR
to provide an assessment of foreseeable trans-city boundary emissions likely to be generated
by the proposed hotel guests traveling to Healdsburg. The expansion of the Sonoma County
Airport and the resulting traffic congestion is common knowledge, reported in local papers. It is more a than a little disingenuous for the FEIR to question whether providing additional

•

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 5

hotel capacity will result in additional air travel.

The NEAP FEIR could easily provide estimates of the travel profiles of the proposed
hotel's anticipated guests, and from these calculate the resulting VMT impacts of their
project. Contrary to the assertion in the FEIR:

"Tt is not possible for a proposed project or plan to estimate or collect data on
anticipated future tourist or air travel plans for a specific hotel project that has yet to
be proposed, constructed and operated. The origin of travelers to the hotel could vary
substantially, and there is no way to accurately determine either that origin or whether the hotel would induce additional global travel to the area. Rather, it is perhaps more likely that tourists would be traveling to the area for other local attractions, and this
hotel component of the proposed plan would provide an alternative for lodging those
tourists that are already traveling to the area.' (FEIR 3-51)

It is feasible for the City to collect data on historical VMT by airplane and other
modes of travel associated with tourism in Sonoma County. This data is developed and used
commonly for commercial investment purposes. Another likely source of such information
is the data underlying the recent application for a $20 million grant from the Federal Aviation
Administration for a Sonoma County Airport terminal expansion. The City could then
calculate the proportional contribution of a proposed 130-room hotel to these reasonably foreseeable VMT induced emissions.

This cumulative GHG emissions impacts analysis does not require speculation regarding anyone's future plans. The information for making reasonable estimates of air and
other modes of travel associated with the proposed hotel, based on data showing clearly established patterns, is available if the City had a good faith interest in full disclosure as
mandated by CEQA. A feasible methodology for estimating and allocating emissions to a
proposed hotel was submitted in comments by CRW and by Tom Conlon, a recognized expert in data analysis and energy efficiency.

2. Adopting Invalid Significance Findings as a Basis for Consistency With Statewide
Emissions Goals

The DEIR cites recommendations by the State Supreme Court in Center for Biological Diversity (CBD) v. California Department of Fish and Wildlife, (2015) 62 Cal. 4th 204 for
categories of substantial evidence to support a finding that a project is consistent with
meeting statewide emission reduction goals. The court found that consistency with statewide

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 6
emissions reduction goals qualifies as a permissible criterion of significance. One
evidentiary basis was compliance with a GHG Reduction Plan or Climate Action Plan.
(DEIR 3.4-30)

The DEIR then proceeds to discuss the Sonoma County Climate Action Plan ("CAP") and its findings regarding Countywide and City of Healdsburg GHG emissions:
"As shown in Figure 3.4-4, Countywide emissions have decreased overall primarily due to a decrease in GHG emissions due to building energy usage." (DEIR 3.4-10)
"GHG inventories for individual jurisdictions were included in the overall Sonoma
County inventory. Total GHG emissions in Healdsburg increased from 109,000 MT
CO2e in 2010 to 117,000 MT CO2e in 2015. Countywide emissions in 2010 were 16 percent above 1990 levels, and this percentage increased to 25 percent above 1990
levels in 2015." (DEIR 3.4-11)

The Sonoma County Superior Court, in its ruling invalidating the CAP and certification of its EIR, found that "…the inventory of greenhouse gas emissions is based on
insufficient information; the PEIR fails to include enforceable, clearly defined performance
standards for the mitigation measures regarding Green House Gas ("GHG"') emissions, identified as 'GHG reduction measures;' and fails to develop and fully analyze a reasonable range of alternatives". Based on those findings the court concluded: "The Court finds that
there is insufficient information in the administrative record to support the factual conclusion
that the CAP will achieve its fundamental purpose of reducing Respondent's countywide GHG emissions to the stated target of 25% below 1990 levels by 2020". Sonoma County
Superior Court Case No. SCV-259242, California River Watch v. County of Sonoma, et al
Order Granting Petition for Writ of Mandate, July 20, 2017, p.1-2.

The NEAP DEIR relies on findings in the CAP'S GHG inventory and a 2018 update
using the same methodologies the Court found inadequate in its July 20, 2017 ruling. These findings are treated as established fact despite the Court's ruling that the CAP's GHG inventory was based on insufficient information. The insufficient information to support the CAP GHG inventory (and by extension its update) was in part exactly the same scope of information omitted in the DEIR evaluation of the GHG emissions impacts of the NEAP, i.e. trans-boundary VMT induced emissions from tourist travel.

"Although the Climate Action Plan no longer serves as a CEQA tool, the document
does still serve to advise and coordinate Countywide climate protection efforts. The
ideas contained in the Climate Action Plan to advance smart land use and

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 7

resource efficiency are still valid and aligned with the climate action strategies
stated in the Scoping Plan to reach the State's overall GHG reduction goals." As
a result, the City adopted a resolution in March 2018 to address GHG emissions consistent with the CAP. Therefore, in order to comprehensively evaluate the GHG
emissions implications of the proposed plan, the plan is assessed for its consistency with the GHG emission reduction measures included in the Sonoma County Regional Climate Action Plan that were adopted by the City of Healdsburg in March 2018." (emphasis added) (DEIR 3.4-36)
The assertion that the ideas in the CAP are still valid and aligned with strategies to reach the State's climate goals defies logic. While the general ideas in the CAP regarding smart land use and resource efficiency have value as broadly defined strategies, the Superior Court found unequivocally that, for most of the GHG reduction measures, their specific formulations in the CAP were too vague and unacceptably deferred to be enforceable. Most fundamentally, the Court found that the CAP and EIR lacked sufficient information to support the conclusion that the CAP would achieve its stated target of reducing countywide emissions to 25% below 1990 levels by 2020, primarily because of the omission of the trans- boundary travel induced emissions. Yet, inexplicably, the FEIR adopts as a standard for evaluating the GHG impacts of the NEAP its consistency with GHG emission reduction
measures in the CAP adopted by the City in its March 2018 Resolution:

"Through this Resolution, the Council has agreed to the following items related to
GHG reduction efforts:
1. Agree to support the efforts of the State and RCPA in reducing GHGs. 2. Adopts the following focus areas to reduce GHG emissions and intends to
implement local measures identified in the Climate Action 2020 and Beyond Plan.
a) Low-carbon/No-carbon transportation
b) Increased renewable energy
c) Lowering of water-related GHG emissions
d) City planning and land use 3. Plans to work toward increasing the health and resilience of social, natural, and
built resources to withstand the impacts of climate change.
4. Supports the goals of the Climate Action Plan through positive action of the City
and through collaboration with other local agencies and the RCPA." (emphasis added)
(DEIR 3.4-32)

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 8

The CAP, though legally invalid, does exist as an advisory document. It is within the
discretion of the City to consult whatever sources of advice it chooses. However, it is a
prejudicial abuse of discretion to rely on consistency with measures in the legally invalid CAP as a finding of significance and a basis for a finding of compliance with the State's overall GHG reduction goals. The Superior Court explicitly ruled that there was insufficient information in the CAP to support the conclusion that the measures in the CAP were in
compliance with State GHG reduction goals. The other measures in the City's March, 2018
Resolution suffer from a lack of clearly defined, enforceable performance based standards.

3. Legally Inadequate Mitigation Measures.

The DEIR concludes its analysis of the GHG emissions of the NEAP as follows:

"In summary, although the proposed plan would not conflict with the GHG reduction measures included in the Regional Climate Action Plan, the Climate Action Plan
would not be considered a qualified GHG reduction plan for the purposes of CEQA. Therefore, since the Climate Action Plan was adopted to meet the goals of AB 32, the
proposed plan is also evaluated for consistency with the State plans to determine whether it would conflict with any other applicable plan, policy, or regulation adopted
by the City for the purpose of reducing GHIG emissions. As discussed in Impact
GHG-1, GHG emissions would exceed the BAAQMD CEQA Guidelines
recommended thresholds of significance. As a result, the proposed plan could conflict
with applicable plan, policy or regulation adopted by the City to reduce the emissions of GHGs. The impact would be potentially significant. However, the GHG emissions during operation would not exceed BAAQMD's threshold of significance with implementation of MM GHG-1 (see Table 3.4-6). The impact would be less than
significant with mitigation incorporated." (DEIR 3.4-58)

Mitigation Measures MM GHG-1
G6 Prior to the final discretionary approval for each development project in the plan area, each developer shall provide documentation to the City of Healdsburg demonstrating that the proposed development would meet the BAAQMD recommended threshold of significance for individual projects or would achieve additional GHG emissions reductions sufficient to meet the recommended threshold
through a combination of one or more of the following measures and/or other
comparable measures approved by the City: (emphasis added)

Commit to 100 percent renewable energy use through a combination of use of on-

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 9

site renewable energy and Healdsburg Electric's "Green Rate" program.
• Install on-site solar panels to generate electricity for on-site electricity consumption.
Provide documentation how a ride-sharing program or other transportation demand management program for hotel, office, and retail employees would be implemented starting no later than 60 days after operations begin. Use of electric vehicles for ride- share program would further reduce GHG emissions Install electric vehicle charging stations at workplaces and multi-family residences to promote the use of electric vehicles.
• Use heat-pumps (rather than natural gas) for heating of residential and commercial
spaces. Purchase voluntary carbon credits from a verified GHG emissions credit broker in
an amount sufficient to offset operational GHG emissions that exceed the recommended significance threshold over the lifetime of the proposed development (or a reduced amount estimated based on implementation of other measures listed
above). Copies of the contract(s) shall be provided to the City." (DEIR 3.4-46-47)
(emphasis added)

The above mitigation measures, whereby each project developer within the plan area is required to document how it would meet BAAQMD thresholds, is a prime example of invalid deferred mitigation under CEQA. The documentation is deferred to the time when each project developer submits an application.

The terms of the documentation are much too vaguely defined to satisfy the requirement for clearly defined, enforceable performance based standards as mandated by CEQA; either demonstraté compliance with thresholds by undefined measures, or achieve
additional GHG emissions reductions through one or more listed measures or "other
comparable measures approved by the City".
Of the additional listed measures, only the commitment to 100 percent renewable energy use is defined in terms that might qualify as clearly defined and enforceable. The measures regarding solar panels, heat pumps and charging stations all lack the quantification to make them practically enforceable. Purchasing carbon credits with no conditions other than coming from a qualified broker begs questions regarding the validity of the offsets. The dispositive language undermining the validity of the list of additional GHG reduction measures is the qualifying phrase "other comparable measures approved by the City". This violates both the prohibition against lack of clear performance based standards ("other comparable measures") and the prohibition against deferred mitigation- approved by the City
at time of specific project application.

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 10

The first sentence of MM GHG-1- "Prior to the final discretionary approval for each development project ..." suggests the possibility of separate EIRs for future discretionary approvals of specific projects. However, as noted above, the intent of the DEIR is that the
City will rely on the analysis in the NEAP EIR of impacts of the proposed land uses when
considering future specific proposals:
"It is anticipated that the plan and this EIR will be relied upon by the City when considering a specific proposal by Comstock Healdsburg, LLC to develop the North
Village site in phases with senior residential, hotel, restaurant, retail, commercial
office, and multi-family residential uses." (DEIR ES-2)

For the NEAP FEIR to satisfy the informational function of CEQA, the FEIR must
present facts and analysis which provide a clear analytical route taken by the City to reach
the conclusion that implementation of the NEAP would result in less than significant GHG
emissions with incorporation of the NEAP's proposed mitigations. The underestimation of
GHG emissions attributable to the proposed hotel represents an analytical gap in the
calculation of the GHG emissions reasonably foreseeable from implementation of the NEAP
for which there is no reasonable explanation in the FEIR. CEQA requires a clear discussion
of foreseeable impacts. The FEIR failed to meet this requirement by excluding data and
sources which should have been included in the discussion of GHG emissions associated
with the proposed hotel.

The confusing combination of relying on consistency with GHG mitigation measures
identified in the legally invalid CAP, and additional reliance on inadequate mitigation measures in MM GHG-1 further undermines the conclusion of the FEIR that implementation of the NEAP will not have cumulatively significant GHG impacts.

4. Overriding Considerations
On May 20, 2019, the City Council adopted a Resolution certifying the FEIR, adopting CEQA Findings, a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Plan and a Statement of Overriding Considerations. Under CEQA, where a proposed project may result in significant impacts on the environment and it is infeasible to reduce impacts to less than significant levels through project alternatives or mitigation measures, a public agency may approve the
project only if the benefits of the project outweigh the unavoidable adverse environmental effects. Section 15093 of the CEQA Guidelines requires the decision-making agency to balance the economic, legal, social, technological, or other benefits of a proposed project

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 11
against its unavoidable environmental risks when determining whether to approve the
project.

"CEQA also gives public agencies the authority to approve a project notwithstanding
its environmental impacts, if the agency determines it is not feasible to lessen or avoid the
significant effects (Pub. Resources Code, § 21002; Cal. Code Regs., tit. 14, § 15043, subd. (a)), and if specifically identified benefits of the project outweigh the unavoidable,
significant environmental impacts." City of Marina v. Board of Trustees, (2003) 109 Cal.
App. 4th 1179, * 1186, Court of Appeal of California, Sixth Appellate District .

The Statement of Overriding Considerations identified significant and unavoidable
impacts related to traffic. It also identified specific considerations and benefits of the NEAP,
each of which, allegedly, separately and independently, outweigh the significant, adverse impacts and is an overriding consideration independently warranting approval. These benefits
include revitalizing a currently underutilized former industrial site, allowing for the construction of a minimum of 250 dwelling units and a cap of 290 dwelling units, promoting environmental sustainability by preserving surrounding hillsides, and providing construction
jobs.

CRW did not comment on traffic impacts and takes no position on the feasibility of
lessening or avoiding said impacts. The findings are improper and do not comply with CEQA
because the City only found that the benefits outweighed the traffic impacts. But the City
failed to specifically find that the project benefits override the project's GHG impacts to local air quality and global climate. The Statement of Overriding Considerations does not consider the trans-boundary GHG emissions from tourist travel which is the gravamen of CRW's opposition to the NEAP. The City's finding that the benefits of the NEAP outweigh unavoidable, significant environmental impacts is further lacking in substantial evidence considering the FEIR's reliance on a legally invalid CAP and inadequate additional mitigation measures in determining the potential GHG emissions impacts from
implementation of the NEAP.

CONCLUSION

Based on its review, CRW believes the FEIR is not in compliance with CEQA and
that the City has failed to adequately respond to and address comments and concerns raised.
CRW has previously provided the City with valid concerns and legal issues. In light of both the City's disregard for CRW's concerns and its failure to show the slightest interest in engaging in any discussion with representatives of CRW, this office is serving this Notice

May DeRosa
City of Healdsburg
Notice of Intent to Sue
June 17, 2019
Page 12
to inform you that CRW intends to file suit in state court within the 30 days from the May 21, 2019 issuance of the Notice of Determination and will be seeking a Writ of Mandamus
setting aside the certification of the FEIR and approval of the NEAP.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please contact me directly with any response to this letter. Please also copy Jack Silver, Esquire with all email communications regarding this matter at jsilverenvironmental@gmail.com.

Sincerely, Jerry Bernhaut Devry BeAnut Jony parAill

PROOF OF PERSONAL SERVICE

1. I am over the age of 18 years and not a party to this action.

2. I served the following document:
Notice of Intent to Sue City of Healdsburg North Entry Area Plan, Final Environmental Impact Report, Legal Compliance Under CEQA, Petition for Writ of Mandate

3. I personally served the following person and/or entity at the address, date and time
stated:

a. Name: Maya DeRosa, Planning and Building Department City of Healdsburg
b. Address: 401 Grove Street, Healdsburg, California 95448
c. Date: June 17, 2019
d. Time: 10:15 am.

4. am not a registered California process server.

5. My name, address, telephone number are as follows:

Jerry Bernhaut
23 Woodgreen Street
Santa Rosa, CA 95409
Tel. (707) 595-1852

I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed this 17th day of June, 2019.

Desr Be Auut
Jerry Bernhaut Jory Pondtud

NECEIVEN JUN 2 0 2019 BY:_____EO_-----