*

1 BETH A. COLLINS (State Bar No. 222108)
bcollins@bhfs.com
2 CHRISTOPHER R. GUILLEN (State Bar No. 299132)
cguillen@bhfs.com
BROWNSTEIN HYATT FARBER SCHRECK, LLP
1021 Anacapa Street, 2nd Floor
4 Santa Barbara, CA 93101
Telephone: (805) 963-7000
5 Facsimile: (805) 965-4333

6 Attorneys for Plaintiff/Petitioner THORNWOOD REAL ESTATE, LLC
7

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 8

FOR THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA

10 THORNWOOD REAL ESTATE, LLC, a Case No. 19CV05887 ITNJIMHOS MIIHVI LIVAH NIALSNMONA California limited liability company, NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL 11
Petitioner and Plaintiff,
[Public Resources Code § 21167.7] 3 HOLE YODSR J00W Az wang edexery 120! 12
V.
13
CITY OF GOLETA, a California
14 municipality, CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GOLETA, PLANNING
15 COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF
GOLETA and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
16
Respondents and 17 Defendants.

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28
19913225

NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL

1 TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA:

2 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that Petitioner and Plaintiff THORNWOOD REAL ESTATE,

3 LLC (*TRE*) hereby provides notice, pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.7 and

4 Code of Civil Procedure Section 388, that on November 4, 2019, TRE filed a Verified Petition for

5 Writ of Mandamus and Complaint for Injunctive Relief (*Petition") against Respondents and

6 Defendants CITY OF GOLETA, CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GOLETA, and the

7 PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF GOLETA (collectively, "Respondents") in the

8 above-referenced Court. The Petition alleges that Respondents violated the California

9 Environmental Quality Act when they adopted the Addendum to the Final Environmental Impact
d'TT*NJIXHOS HAHHVA LLVAH NIAISNMONg 10 Report (SCH No. 2004061072) (Case No. 04-121-DRB, -GRC, -DP and 11-EIR-02) and the

11 Biological Mitigation and Monitoring Program for Respondents' Ekwill Street and Fowler Road
IOIE1 DOOLOTE OSDS aE HD c01 EIQIEg EIUES 12 Extensions Project. A filed copy of the Petition is attached hereto as EXHIBIT A.

13

14 November 5, 2019 BROWNSTEIN HYATT FARBER SCHRECK, LLP

15

16 By: Bon Call

BETH A. COLLINS 17 CHRISTOPHER R. GUILLEN
Attorneys for Petitioner 18 THORNWOOD REAL ESTATE, LLC
19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28
-
19913225
NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL

ExhibIt A

BETH A. COLLINS (State Bar No. 222108) beollins@bhfs.com 2 CHRISTOPHER R. GUILLEN (State Bar No. 299132) ELECTRONICALLY FILED
Superior Court of California II cguillen@bhfs.com BROWNSTEIN HYATT FARBER SCHRECK, LLP County of Santa Barbara
Darrel E. Parker, Executive Officer 1021 Anacapa St., 2nd Floor Santa Barbara, CA 93101 11/4/2019 2:13 PM Telephone: (805) 882-1419 By: Sarah Sisto, Deputy Facsimile: (805) 965-4333

6 Attorneys for Plaintiff/Petitioner THORNWOOD REAL ESTATE, LLC

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 8

FOR THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA 9

ANACAPA DIVISION dTIAONHOS H39HVA LIVAH NI3LSNAOXS 10

11

101€6 VO uurqueg mues soof! puz*is adeozuy IZ01 12 THORNWOOD REAL ESTATE, LLC, a Case No. 19CV05887 California limited liability company, VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF 13
Petitioner and Plaintiff, MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR
INJUNCTIVE RELIEF 14
V.
[Code of Civil Procedure §§ 526, 1021.5, 1085, 1094.5; California Environmental Quality Act 15 CITY OF GOLETA, a California (Public Resources Code § 21000 et seq.)] 16 municipality, CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY ÖF GOLETA, PLANNING
17 COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF GOLETA and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
18 Respondents and Defendants. 19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

I. INTRODUCTION

2 1. Petitioner and Plaintiff THORNWOOD REAL ESTATE, LLC ("TRE") brings this

3 Petition for Writ of Mandamus and Complaint for Injunctive Relief ("Petition") against
4 Respondents and Defendants CITY OF GOLETA, CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF

5 GOLETA, and the PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF GOLETA (collectively,

6 "City" or "Respondents"), challenging the City's adoption of (1) the Addendum to the Final

7 Environmental Impact Report (SCH No. 2004061072) (Case No. 04-121-DRB, -GRC, -DP and

8 11-EIR-02) ("Addendum") for the City's Ekwill Street and Fowler Road Extensions Project

9 ("Project"), as a violation of the California Environmental Quality Act, Public Resources Code
J'TT*YOIHHOS XZEHV:I LIVAH NIILSNMOHS 10 section 21000 et seq, and (2) the City's adoption of the Biological Mitigation and Monitoring

11 Program ("BMMP") for the Project.
1021 Anacapa St., 2nd Floor 1OIS6 Va urqags 12 2. In 2011, the City certified the Final Environmental Impact Report ("FEIR") for the

13 Project. At that time, the Project proposed the following transportation improvements within the

14 City: (1) extension of Ekwill Street from Kellogg Avenue to Fairview Avenue ("Ekwill Street

15 Extension"); (2) modifications to State Route 217 on-ramps and off-ramps at Hollister Avenue;

16 and, (3) extension of South Street to Fairview Avenue ("Fowler Road Extension").

17 3. After the certification of the FEIR, the City significantly changed the Project by

18 eliminating the Fowler Road Extension from Technology Drive to Fairview Avenue. In its place,

19 the City now proposes constructing a natural filtration device and planting riparian habitat. The

20 City also developed the BMMP which details the riparian habitat to be planted in lieu of the

21 Fowler Road Extension. These changes to the Project have various environmental impacts; for

22 example, they conflict with applicable land use plans, create new traffic impacts, and increase

23 hazards associated with the adjacent Santa Barbara Airport ("Airport").

24 4. Disregarding these impacts, the City analyzed the environmental impacts created
25 by the changes to the Project via the Addendum, rather than a subsequent or supplemental

26 environmental impact report ("EIR").

27 5. Accordingly, TRE respectfully seeks a writ of mandate requiring the City to

28 rescind, void, and vacate any and all motions and resolutions reflecting its approval of the Project
-
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

as modified and adoption of the Addendum and the BMMP. These motions and resolutions

2 include City Council Resolution No. 19-61 and Planning Commission Resolution 19-07.

3 6. TRE also prays for appropriate injunctive relief to prevent the City from taking

4 further actions to implement or proceed with the Project during the pendency of this litigation and

5 prior to complying with CEQA.

6 II. PARTIES

7. Petitioner TRE is a limited liability company organized and existing under the
laws of the State of California. TRE owns property located at APNs 071-170-79, 071-170-80 and
071-170-83 in the City, which is directly adjacent to the Project. The health and safety of

10 persons accessing TRE's property will be directly affected by the Project as the Project will cause

11 significant adverse impacts, which have not been adequately analyzed or mitigated to the extent
101£6 VO EqiEy qUES soot! puz *1S rdeoeuy 1201 TTYONHOS M3S8VA LLVAH NIELSNMONg 12 feasible. TRE is suing on its behalf, and on behalf of others who will be affected in the area

process. 13 surrounding the Project, as well as for all citizens more broadly, including those who seek to

14 maintain the integrity and fairness of the environmental review and land use entitlement

15 8. Respondent City of Goleta is a municipality and a political subdivision of the State

16 of California.

17 9. Respondent City of Goleta City Council is the elected governing body of the City.

18 10. Respondent City of Goleta Planning Commission is an inferior decision-making

19 body for the City.

20 11. TRE is currently unaware of the true names and capacities of Respondents and

21 Defendants DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, and therefore sues those parties by fictitious names.
TRE will amend this Petition to allege their true names and capacities when the same has been 22

23 ascertained.

24 III. JURISDICTION AND VENUE

25 12. This Petition is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 526, 1085

26 and 1094.5 and Public Resources Code section 21000, et seq., including sections 21168, 21168.5

27 and 21168.9. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to the above provisions and

28 because the Respondents named in this litigation are present and operating within the
2

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

jurisdictional limits of the County of Santa Barbara.

2 13. Venue is proper in this Court pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure

3 sections 393, 394, and 395 because the Project is located in, and impacts the residents of, the

4 County of Santa Barbara, and because all of the acts and omissions complained of took place

5 within the County of Santa Barbara. Venue is also proper because Respondents are located

6 within the County of Santa Barbara.

7 IV. STANDING

8 14. a TRE has a direct and substantial beneficial interest in the City's full and complete

9 compliance with CEQA, and all other applicable laws, in approving the Project.

10 15. The City owed a mandatory duty to act within the boundaries of its legal dTTYOANHOS H3NVA LIVAH NIIISNMOHg 11 authorities under CEQA and all other applicable laws before exercising its discretion to approve
101S6 V*urqeg nues Joota pez "5 rdroery 1201 12 the Addendum and the modifications to the Project.

13 16. TRE also has the right to enforce the public's right and duties that CEQA and all

14 other applicable laws impose on the City.

15 17. TRE has no other plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of

16 law, and will suffer irreparable injury unless this court issues the relief requested herein.

17 V. EXHAUSTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES

18 18. TRE objected to approval of the changes to the Project and the Addendum prior to

19 the close of the Planning Commission hearings, and appealed the Planning Commission's

20 approval to the City Council. TRE also objected to approval of the changes to the Project and the

21 Addendum prior to the close of the City Council hearing on the changes to the Project and the

22 Addendum.

23 19. The grounds for noncompliance with CEQA and other applicable laws alleged in

24 the Petition are consistent with the objections to the changes to the Project and the Addendum

25 raised by TRE prior to the close of the public hearings on the Project.

26 20. If any grounds for noncompliance with CEQA and other applicable laws alleged in

27 this Petition were, for some reason, not raised prior to the close of the public hearings on the

28 Project, it was because there was no meaningful opportunity for members of the public to raise
3
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

1 those objections prior to the approval of the Project, or because the City failed to give notice

2 required by law.

3 21. TRE has exhausted its administrative remedies.

4 VI. FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

5 22. TRE owns property located at APNs 071-170-79, 071-170-80 and 071-170-83 in

6 the City of Goleta. In total, the properties exceed 19 acres and are bordered by Old San Jose

7 Creek on the west, Technology Drive on the East, Ekwill Street on the north and South

8 Road/School Bus Lane to the south (collectively, the "Property"). The Property is currently

9 undeveloped.

23. Land uses surrounding the Property include the Santa Barbara Airport (*Airport") J'TT'NDINHOS 3EHVA .LLVAII NIELSNMONG 10

11 to the West, commercial/industrial uses to the north, south and east, Old Town Goleta to the
10156 YO tmorg es xou purz*as adeoeuy 120! 12 north, and State Route 217 to the east.

13 24. In 2011, the City certified the FEIR for the Project. The purpose of the Project

14 was to reduce congestion on Hollister Avenue while enhancing regional access and connectivity

15 between and within Old Town Goleta and the Airport. Accordingly, the City's initial iteration of

16 the Project proposed the Ekwill Street Extension, the Fowler Road Extension and the

17 improvements to the State Route 217 on-ramps and off-ramps at Hollister Avenue.

18 25. Because the Fowler Road Extension proposed crossing the Property, the City filed

19 a lawsuit in March 2015 to acquire a right-of-way across the Property by way of eminent domain.

20 In 2016, the City and TRE settled the lawsuit and stipulated to a Judgment and Final Order of

21 Condemnation which granted the City the right-of-way to construct the Fowler Road Extension

22 across the Property in return for monetary consideration.

23 26. In 2017, the City made significant changes to the Project. Instead of constructing

24 a road within the right-of-way across the Property, the City now proposes to plant riparian habitat.

25 27. To approve the modifications of the Project, the City prepared the Addendum and

26 BMMP in May 2019. The Addendum concludes that: "All previous findings of significance,

27 which determined that the Project's potential adverse effects on the environment would be less-

4 28 than-significant with mitigation, or beneficial, are unchanged with the currently proposed Project.

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

The Project will not have additional significant effects not discussed in the previous FEIR and

2 would not create effects that result in an increase in the severity of significant effects already

3 identified in the previous FEIR." (Addendum, p. 3.)

4 28. The Planning Commission held a hearing on June 10, 2019 to consider the

5 Addendum and the BMMP and the modifications to the Project. TRE made oral comments

6 during the hearing in opposition to the Addendum and the modifications to the Project. Despite

7 TRE's objections, the Planning Commission approved the Addendum and the BMMP on June 10,

8 2019.

9 29. On June 20, 2019, TRE timely appealed the Planning Commission's action to the

TT'NORHHOS HIHAVA LIVAII NI3ISNMONG 10 City Council.

11 30. The City Council noticed a public hearing on the appeal for October 1, 2019.
101€5 VD utqneg eruzg 1021 Anacapa St., 2nd Floor 12 31. On September 28, 2019, TRE submitted extensive written comments to thé City

13 Council in opposition to the Addendum and in support of the appeal.

14 32. Among other things, the changes to the Project create new land use impacts that

15 are unanalyzed in the Addendum. Specifically, the Addendum fails to analyze the Project's

16 consistency with the 1993 Airport Land Use Plan for the Airport. The 1993 Airport Land Use

17 Plan specifies that development of new incompatible land uses is restricted within the safety areas

18 surrounding the Airport, which include the Property. Incompatible land uses include "[a]ny use

19 which would attract large concentrations of birds, or which may otherwise affect safe air

20 navigation within the area." (1993 Airport Land Use Plan, p. 43.) The Addendum fails to

21 analyze the consistency of the Project changes to this policy, despite the proposed addition of

22 riparian habitat within these safety areas. Furthermore, revisions to the ALUP have been

23 proposed by SBCAG and the Project is also inconsistent with the proposed revisions.

24 33. Furthermore, the Addendum fails to support its conclusion that the changes to the

25 Project will not result in any traffic impacts with substantial evidence. This is especially

26 significant as the changes to the Project undermined the traffic impact analysis conducted in the

27 FEIR, which relied on both the Ekwill Street Extension and Fowler Road Extension in concluding

28 the Project would improve traffic conditions in the area. The FEIR does not analyze the impacts
5
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

or benefits of just constructing the Ekwill Street Extension and the Addendum fails to provide this

2 analysis.

3 34. The Addendum also fails to analyze the hazards associated with creating riparian

4 habitat on property in close proximity to the Airport. As noted in the 1993 Airport Land Use

5 Plan, wildlife, particularly bird strikes, pose significant hazards to airports. (1993 Airport Land

6 Use Plan, p. 43.) Despite creating habitat for this sort of wildlife, the Addendum does not address

7 this safety hazard posed by the changes to the Project in any manner.

8 35. On October 1, 2019, TRE made additional oral comments during the City

9 Council's hearing On1 its appeal.

10 36. The City Council denied the appeal and affirmed the Planning Commission's

11 decision on October 1, 2019.
021 Anacapa St., 2nd Floor dTT'X)3MHOS 838VA LIVAH NI3ISNMONH 10156 YJ *ueqreg nues 12 37. The City filed a Notice of Determination for the Addendum on October 4, 2019

13 with the Santa Barbara County Clerk's office.

14 38. A copy of TRE's September 28, 2019 letter to the City Council in support of its
15 appeal is attached hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.

16 39. A copy of TRE's October 1, 2019 PowerPoint presentation to the City Council is

17 attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference.

18 40. TRE, as well as members of the general public, will suffer irreparable harm if the

19 relief requested herein is not granted and the Project is commenced based upon the Addendum.

20 41. TRE has no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy in the course of ordinary law to

21 redress the claims pleaded herein.

22 42. TRE has complied with the requirements of Public Resources Code section

23 21167.5 by mailing a written notice of commencement of this action to Respondents prior to the
24 commencement of this suit, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit C.

25 43. TRE will also serve a copy of this Petition on the California Attorney Gencral as

26 required by Public Resources Code section 21167.7.

27 44. TRE hereby and by a separate election notifies the City that TRE elects to prepare

28 the record of proceedings relevant to the approval of the Project in compliance with Public
6
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

Resources Code section 21167.6, subdivision (b)(2). A copy of such notice is filed concurrently

2 with this Petition.

FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION 3

4 (Violations of CEQA: Pub. Resources Code, $ 21000 ct seg. - Failure to Identify Reasonably

5 Foresecable and Potentially Significant Adverse Impacts, to Adopt Feasible Mitigation

6 Measures, and to Prepare a Supplemental or Subsequent Environmental Impact Report)

7 45. TRE realleges and incorporates by reference paragraphs 1 through 44, inclusive, of

8 this Petition, as though fully set forth herein.

9 46. When an EIR for a project has been previously certified, CEQA requires the

10 preparation of a supplemental or subsequent EIR that complies with the requirements of the

11 statute where, in part, substantial changes are proposed in the project which will result in new
10156 Y urueg nues sooLi pez *S edeocuy 1201 ITNDJAHOS MIEHVA JIVAHI NIELSNMONg 12 significant environmental effects or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified

13 effects. (Sce Pub. Resources Code, § 21166; CEQA Guidelines, § 15162.) Statutory

14 requirements include, but are not limited to, fully disclosing and meaningfully analyzing the

15 Project's potentially significant environmental impacts.

16 47. CEQA also mandates that a lead agency adopt feasible and enforceable mitigation

17 measures that would reduce or avoid a project's significant environmental impacts.

18 48. The City violated CEQA by adopting the Addendum to analyze the changes to the

19 Project rather than preparing an EIR. Among other things, the City violated CEQA by:

20 a. Failing to adequately disclose and analyze the changes to the Project's

21 reasonably foresecable significant adverse impacts on the environment, including but not limited

22 to direct and cumulative land use, traffic, and hazard impacts;

23 b. Failing to adequately analyze the land use and hazard impacts associated

24 with planting riparian habitat in close proximity to the Airport;

25 C. Failing to adequately analyze the traffic impacts associated with

26 eliminating the Fowler Road Extension from the Project;

27 d. Failing to adequately analyze the off-site and cumulative impacts

28 associated with the changes to the Project;
7
VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

C. Failing to adequately analyze and include adequate mitigation measures for 1

2 the significant environmental effects created by the changes to the Project; and,
Erroncously concluding without substantial evidence that the changes to 3 f.

4 the Project will not result in new significant impacts or more severe effects than those previously
identified in the FEIR.

6 49. The Addendum, in other words, is so fundamentally flawed that it precludes

7 meaningful public review, and is insufficient to address the environmental impacts flowing from

8 the Project. Substantial evidence shows that an EIR was required to address the environmental

9 impacts created by the changes to the Project.

10 50. As a result of the foregoing defects and others according to proof, the City

11 prejudicially abused its discretion in adopting and relying upon an inadequate Addendum and
soot! paz * ss edeoeuy 1201 d'TT'NOIHHOS HIAVA LLVAH NIZLSNMONS 10IS6 V ucqicg queS 12 BMMP rather than preparing an EIR and, as such, the adoption of the Addendum and BMMP

13 should be set aside.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF 14

15 WHEREAS. Petitioner and Plaintiff prays for relief as follows:

16 1. That the Court issue a peremptory writ of mandamus:

17 a. Compelling Respondents to set aside and vacate the adoption of the

18 Addendum and the BMMP for the Project;

19 b. Compelling Respondents to set aside and vacate all approvals for the

20 Project issued by Respondents based upon the Addendum and the BMMP;

21 C. Compelling Respondents to suspend any and all activities pursuant to the

22 challenged decisions, determinations, and approvals that could result in an adverse change or

23 alteration to the physical environment until Respondents have taken all actions necessary to bring

24 the Project's environmental review, decisions, and determinations into full compliance with

25 CEQA, and the CEQA Guidelines;

26 d. Compelling Respondents to prepare, circulate, review and certify a legally

27 adequate EIR before Respondents take any further action on the Project; and,

28 C, Compelling Respondents to take such further specific action as shall be
8

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

1 necessary to bring their decisions, determinations, and approvals into full compliance with

2 CEQA, and the CEQA Guidelines.

3 2. For an order declaring that:

a. Respondents' actions adopting the Addendum and the BMMP violated 4

5 CEQA and the CEQA Guidelines, and that the certification and approvals are invalid and of no

6 force or effect.

7 3. a For a stay, temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, and permanent

8 injunction prohibiting any actions by Respondents pursuant to the adoption and approval of the

9 Addendum, the BMMP and the changes to the Project, until full compliance is attained with all

d'T1'YD3AHJSX3B8VA LIVXH NIZLSNMOMg 10 requirements of CEQA and all other applicable state and local laws, policies, ordinances, and

11 regulations.

12 4. For costs of suit including an award of reasonable attorneys' fees pursuant to Code 10156 VO LEORE QUES 100L poz* 1S edzatzy 1201 13 of Civil Procedure sections 1021.5, and any other applicable provisions of law or equity.

14 5. For such other and further relief as the Court deems just and proper.

15
Dated: November 4, 2019 BROWNSTEIN HYATT FARBER SCHRECK, LLP 16
Bitl Call 17

By: 18
BETH A. COLLINS
CHRISTOPHER R. GUILLEN 19
Attorneys for Petitioner THORNWOOD REAL ESTATE, LLC 20

21

22
23

24

25

26

27

9 28

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

VERIFICATION 1

2 1, the undersigned, declare that I, John Lund, am an authorized representative for

3 Thornwood Real Estate, LLC, the petitioner in this action. I have read the foregoing VERIFIED
4 PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF,

5 know the contents thereof, and I believe the allegations contained herein to be true.

6 declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the

7 foregoing is true and correct. Executed this 4th day of November 2019 in Santa Barbara,

8 California.

9

John Lund 10

0Z91 zung *kexpeorg szt STT'NIMIOS HIAMVA LIVAFI NI3LSNMOHA =
105-10176 V3 0801g uTS 12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF

Petition for Writ of Mandate.
Exhibit A

Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck

Beth A. Collins
September 28, 2019 Attorney at Law
805.882.1419 tel
805.965.4333 fax
bcollins@bhfs.com

VIA EMAIL

Mayor Paula Perotte and Honorable City Council Members Attn: Deborah Lopez, City Clerk
City of Goleta 130 Cremona Drive, Suite B
Goleta, CA 93117

RE: October 1, 2019 City Council Meeting, Agenda Item No. B.1, Appeal by Thornwood Real Estate, LLC of Planning Commission Resolution 19-07 Approving a CEQA Addendum to the Final Environmental Impact Report (FEIR) for the Ekwill Street and Fowler Road
Extensions Project (State Clearinghouse [SCH] No. 2004061072), Case No. 11-EIR-02

Dear Mayor and Councilmembers:

We represent Thornwood Real Estate, LLC ("TRE"), owner of property located at APNs 071-170-79, 071- 170-80 and 071-170-83 in the City of Goleta ("City"). (See Exhibit A [figure showing TRE parcels].) In total, the properties exceed 19 acres and are bordered by Old San Jose Creek on the west, Technology Drive on the east, Ekwill Street on the north and Fowler Road to the south (collectively, the "Property"). In
2014, TRE submitted applications to develop the Property with warehouses and industrial buildings and has dutifully pursued the proposed development since that time. TRE worked closely with City staff to ensure development of the Property would be coordinated with the City's proposed Ekwill Street and Fowler Road Extensions Project (the prior version of the project where both Ekwill and Fowier go through and provide new connections in Old Town) ("Prior Project"), which is purposed with improving transportation in and around Old Town Goleta. TRE designed the development on its Property to satisfy new restrictions imposed on the Property by the Prior Project and, at the request of the City, has been awaiting construction of the Fowler Road Extension improvements until proceeding further with its
development.

In 2016, TRE stipulated to the condemnation of a right-of-way ("ROW") across the Property to facilitate the construction of the Fowler Road Connection (a part of the Prior Project) across the southern portion of the
Property. (See Exhibit B [design of Fowler Road Extension across the Property].) In other words, as of 2016, the City and TRE had settled upon a mutually agreeable design of the Fowler Road Connection that would complement, rather than restrict, development on the Property, while satisfying the City's objectives.
Since that time and without any coordination with or notice to TRE, the City has drastically changed the Prior Project and obtained a coastal development permit ("CDP") from the Coastal Commission with a
different plan for the Fowler Road Extension. Not only does this course of action substantially impact the proposed development on the Property, but it ignores the past five years of collaboration that created a mutually agreeable design of the Fowler Road Extension. (See Exhibit C [figure showing modified
Project's impacts on proposed development].) Accordingly, we respectfully request that the City grant TRE's appeal and deny approval of the Addendum and the Final Biological Mitigation and Monitoring Plan

1021 Anacapa Street, 2nd Floor
Santa Barbara, CA 93101-2711
main 805.963.7000

bhfs.com Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, LLP

Mayor and City Council September 28, 2019
Page 2

("FBMMP") so that further coordination and outreach can take place regarding the design of the Project. It should be noted that, although the appeal before the Council is technically related to the Addendum for the FBMMP that FBMMP is being prepared to comply with the CDP. The Council has the power to put off the
adoption of the Addendum, to direct staff to negotiate further with TRE, and even to direct staff to
coordinate with the Coastal Commission about potential modifications to the CDP to address issues raised here. The Council has the responsibility to consider the fairness of the City's actions, litigation risks associated with denying this appeal or from a potential challenge to the existing CDP (since as discussed below the landowner did not receive notice from the Coastal Commission of the action on the CDP), and the costs and benefits of the current Project. If the City chooses to move forward with the Project in its current iteration, TRE will pursue all available relief as discussed further below.

I. HISTORY OF THE EKWILL/FOWLER PROJECT AND DEVELOPMENT AT THE PROPERTY

The purpose of the Prior Project is to reduce congestion on Hollister Avenue while enhancing regional access and connectivity between and within Old Town Goleta and the Airport. After significant community and stakeholder outreach, the Prior Project was initially designed to, among other things: (1) extend Ekwill Street from Kellogg Avenue to Fairview Avenue ("Ekwill Street Extension"); (2) add improvements to State Route 217 on-ramps and off-ramps at Hollister Avenue; and, (3) extend South Street to Fairview Avenue ("Fowler Road Extension"). The environmental impacts for these proposed improvements were analyzed in the Final Environmental Impact Report for the Project ("Prior Project EIR"), which was certified by the City in 2011.

Because the Fowler Road Extension proposed crossing the Property, the City filed a lawsuit in March 2015 to acquire a right-of-way across TRE's Property by way of eminent domain. In 2016, the City and TRE
settled the lawsuit and stipulated to a Judgment and Final Order of Condemnation which granted the City the ROW to construct the Fowler Road Extension across the Property in return for monetary consideration. (See Exhibit B.)
While the development of the Prior Project was ongoing, TRE submitted an application to develop its Property with warehouses and industrial buildings. To ensure compatibility with the Prior Project's final design, TRE designed the development to satisfy setbacks imposed by the Fowler Road Extension and, pursuant to direction from the City (which would not allow processing of the TRE application until the Fowler Extension was approved and funded), has been in a holding pattern.

Il. THE MODIFICATIONS TO THE PRIOR PROJECT, THE CDP, AND THE ADDENDUM ARE
FUNDAMENTALLY UNFAIR

After the certification of the Prior Project EIR and the settlement of the eminent domain lawsuit, the City undertook significant changes to the Prior Project without involvement or notice to TRE. Most significantly, the City eliminated the Fowler Road Extension across the Property. In its stead, the City now proposes constructing a natural filtration device ("bioswale") and the restoration of riparian habitat within the entirety of the ROW. These changes, according to the City's staff report, were necessitated due to the Prior Project's close proximity to the Airport, state funding cuts, and the Prior Project's riparian impacts.

In March 2018, the Coastal Commission, also without notice to TRE, granted a CDP for the redesigned
Project with the following conditions: (1) the preparation and submission to the Commission of the FBMMP; and, (2) the ROW be held as open space in perpetuity. Presumably to comply with the CDP, the City prepared the Addendum and the FBMMP now on appeal before the Council.

While the City was processing its application at the Coastal Commission, and changing the Prior Project, the City was communicating with TRE's representative about TRE's application. Even though the City

Mayor and City Council September 28, 2019
Page 3

knew that the changes to the Fowler Road Extension would significantly impact TRE's proposed project, it failed to mention the pending CDP application, hearing, or the proposed changes to the Prior Project.
While we understand the City's initial motivation for completing the Prior Project and achieving its circulation and transportation goals, the changes to the Prior Project and associated lack of notice to TRE are blatantly unfair and ignore reasonable alternatives:
Lack of Notice or Engagement Prior to Project Changes: As mentioned above, TRE has cooperated with the City over the past five years to ensure compatibility between the Prior Project and proposed development on the Property. However, TRE was not consulted, at any time, prior to or during the City's modifications to the Fowler Road Extension. Stakeholder engagement is critical to sound planning and development. Ignoring this fact, TRE was only notified of the changes to the Prior Project in June 2019, a year after the Coastal Commission conditionally granted the CDP and two years after the City decided to modify the Prior Project. This lack of notice to a landowner directly impacted by the Prior Project is flawed; additional outreach must be conducted before the Project is undertaken.

O While the staff report for this appeal claims that "considerable community outreach efforts" were undertaken in 2018 regarding the changes to the Project, it is unclear what these efforts included. For example, it is unclear whether staff consulted this Council regarding the changes or held any public stakeholder meetings. And, in any event, these "considerable" efforts did not include engagement with TRE, an immediate neighbor and a property owner directly impacted by the changes.
The CDP Was Issued in Violation of the Coastal Act: The Coastal Act requires written public
notice be given to "any affected person" prior to a public hearing on an application for a CDP.
(Pub. Res. Code, § 30621(a).) Coastal Commission regulations further provide that where notice is not properly given, a CDP may be revoked upon application by the party improperly noticed. (Code Regs., tit. 14, §§ 13106, 13105.) As mentioned above, TRE was not provided notice of the Coastal Commission hearing on the Project's CDP until over a year after it occurred, when it received notice of the City's June 2019 Planning Commission hearing. TRE was further ensured by the City staff after the Planning Commission hearing that TRE was notified of the CDP hearing in 2018. However, the Coastal Commission's September 19, 2019 response to a Public Records Act request by TRE's counsel did not include any evidence that TRE received notice. Instead, the Commission sent evidence that suggests that TRE did not receive notice of the hearing on the
CDP. Accordingly, if the issues noted in this letter are not resolved, TRE has no choice but to seek revocation of the City's CDP or to file litigation.
The Project Changes Substantially Impact the Property: In 2016, TRE agreed to convey a portion of its Property to the City with the mutual understanding that the City would use that area of TRE's property to construct the Fowler Road Extension. (Exhibit B [map showing area that was appraised and basis of settlement].) The road would have required any development on the Property to be setback 20 feet; TRE designed its development on its Property with that understanding. Ignoring this agreement, the City modified the Prior Project so that the entire area formerly designated for construction of Fowler Road Extension will now be covered with environmentally sensitive habitat area ("ESHA"). ESHA mandates a development setback of 100
feet from the edge of the riparian canopy. As shown in Exhibits C and E, the C required setback
intrudes significantly into the proposed development on the TRE Property. This change
significantly impacts the TRE planned project, rendering its proposed development infeasible.
Again, the City made these changes without notifying TRE and only after TRE had sold the

Mayor and City Council September 28, 2019
Page 4

property to the City.1 If TRE was aware the City would use the area for ESHA, the negotiations would have differed substantially. In fact, there would not have been a basis for the City to condemn that property for mitigation planting. There are plenty of City owned properties that can host mitigation.

The impacts on the TCE Property and issues with notice could have been avoided with adequate and prompt outreach by the City. In fact, the City could have developed a Project significantly improved than the one now proposed. For example, the FBMMP states that 5.1 acres of mitigation lands are needed to offset the Project's impacts and that the Prior Project EIR required "top priority" be given to selecting mitigation lands along Old San Jose Creek. However, the FBMMP selects less than one acre of land within this "top priority" area for mitigation lands, with 3.98 acres being selected outside the watershed. The FBMMP claims that "suitable areas" within the watershed for mitigation were "too small, fragmented, not owned by the City of Goleta, or not available for purchase." If the City had engaged with TRE in selecting mitigation land, TRE could have offered land it owns adjacent to Old San Jose Creek with higher
ecological value and which would not have had the negative impacts on TRE's proposed development.3
Furthermore, the City proposes to create ESHA on the portion of the Property TRE sold to the City - including the planting of over 80 trees. This new habitat is in close proximity to the Airport's runway, which poses significant safety and land-use concerns discussed further below. (See Exhibit A.) The City could have requested that TRE dedicate certain mitigation lands on APN 071-170-80 in lieu of planting the ESHA within the ROW. Locating the mitigation on this APN would have permitted rehabilitation of Old San Jose Creek, as prioritized in the Prior Project EIR, while avoiding the safety concerns posed by the Airport's runway and the setback conflict with TRE's proposed development.'
Finally, and most significantly, it is unclear why any construction need take place on Fowler Road at all
given the Fowler Road Extension is no longer proposed. Why does the City need to expend the money
when there will be no circulation benefit? The proposed construction (a knuckle cul de sac) will intrude into
riparian habitat, create permanent impacts, and violate the setback requirements for ESHA. Further, the
proposed construction will require .21 acres of mitigation lands be planted and it will significantly impact
TRE's proposed development. This seems like an unnecessary burden given the Fowler Road Extension
is not being constructed and the benefits of the Extension (e.g., connectivity from the Airport to Old Town Goleta) will not be realized.4

1 The City acknowledges that the changes to the Project were made in 2017. However, the City does not acknowledge when it became aware that changes to the Project were required or whether it knew in 2016,
when the ROW was conveyed, that the Fowler Road Extension would be eliminated from the Project. The City's staff report on the appeal states: "In the summer of 2018, City staff made considerable community outreach efforts to select certain mitigation sites, due to concerns about effects to eucalyptus
trees and monarch butterflies in the Santa Barbara Shores and Ellwood Mesa Groves." TRE, the owner of
the property directly affected by the Project, was not notified of the potential mitigation sites during this time
period. TRE also did not hear of any such efforts from its neighbors. Who was notified during this outreach
effort?
Similarly, if the City had engaged with TRE, the City would know that TRE does not necessarily oppose
the construction of the bioswale located on a portion of the Property TRE sold to the City. The bioswale offers necessary improvements like stormwater control to the Property and the surrounding area. However, the expansion of ESHA outside the boundaries of the bioswale creates the setback impacts on
the Property noted above.
Further, as part of TRE's development project, it would be a condition of approval for TRE to complete Technology Drive, a connector road located between Ekwill Street and Fowler Road. With the elimination of the Fowler Road Connection, Technology Drive will be taking the burden of trips through Old Town that

Mayor and City Council September 28, 2019
Page 5

In sum, the process undertaken by the City in modifying and approving the modifications to the Prior Project violates the principals of fairness. The City failed to give notice to TRE the landowner impacted by the Project changes, and then placed the burden of the changes to on TRE, significantly impacting the viability of TRE's proposed development. As such, TRE requests that the City continue its consideration of the Addendum and FBMMP until after the parties can meet and consider alternative Project designs that
are mutually agreeable. However, if the City proceeds with the Project as currently designed, TRE will
consider all potential options for challenging the Project as noted above and below.

III. THE ADDENDUM VIOLATES CEQA

Only minor changes to a project may be addressed in an addendum. in (CEQA Guidelines, § 15164.) If changes to a project will cause new significant environmental effects or substantially increase the severity
a of a previously identified effect, the lead agency must prepare a subsequent or supplemental EIR. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15162; Pub. Res. Code, § 21166.) An agency's decision to prepare an addendum, rather than a subsequent or supplemental EIR, must be supported by substantial evidence. (Mani Bros. Real
Estate Grp. V. City of Los Angeles(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1385, 1404-05; Ventura Foothill Neighbors v. County of Ventura (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 429, 436.) Conclusory assertions that project changes will not cause new significant environmental effects or substantially increase the severity of a previously identified effect does not satisfy this standard. (ld.; see also Pub. Res. Code, § 21082.2(c).)
Relevant to TRE, the changes proposed to the Prior Project create new significant environmental effects. Accordingly, the City cannot analyze the change supplemental EIR must be prepared. to the Prior Project in the Addendum; a subsequent or

A. Land Use Impacts Resulting from the Project Changes Are Unanalyzed

The Addendum states that the Prior Project's proposed mitigation lands, including the proposed ESHA on the Property, "would be consistent with the City of Goleta's land-use policies, the proposed City of Goleta Monarch Butterfly Inventory and Habitat Management Plan, Ellwood Mesa Trails and Habitat Restoration
Project, and the University of California Santa Barbara (UCSB) North Campus Open Space Plan" and, as
such, would not result in any new land use related impacts. However, the Addendum fails to mention the 1993 Airport Land Use Plan ("1993 ALUP") or analyze the consistency of the modifications to the Prior Project with the ALUP.5
The 1993 ALUP, adopted by the Santa Barbara County Airport Land Use Commission ("ALUC"), sets forth permitted land uses, building height restrictions and soundproofing standards for areas surrounding the Airport. The 1993 ALUP specifies that development of new incompatible land uses is restricted within the airport safety areas, which include the Property. Incompatible land uses include "[a]ny use which would . attract large concentrations of birds, or which may otherwise affect safe air navigation within the area.'
(1993 ALUP, p. 43.) The Addendum contains no analysis of the consistency of the modifications to the
Prior Project with these policies, despite addition of ESHA (including 80 trees) directly within the airport safety areas. Indeed, the FBMMP acknowledges that "Old San Jose Creek provides habitat for many birds, including raptors" and seven special-status wildlife species were observed in the FBMMP's study area. (FBMMP, p. 15.) The modified Project increases this habitat around Old San Jose Creek, which will

cannot outlet to Fairview Avenue. Furthermore, if the TRE project cannot be constructed, the City will have to fund the Technology Drive improvements itself. This is especially concerning as the City stated the changes to the Prior Project were necessitated by the proximity to the Airport.

Mayor and City Council September 28, 2019 Page 6

increase the bird habitat within the ALUP.6 In other words, the changes to the Project render the Project
inconsistent with the ALUP.

The Addendum also provides no analysis of the proposed update to the 1993 ALUP ("2019 Draft ALUP"). The 2019 Draft ALUP contains heightened airspace protection standards. For example, the 2019 Draft ALUP states that only "farm crops that do not attract wildlife" and "other uses not in structures and not
exceeding a usage intensity of 10 people per any single acre" are permitted in Safety Zone 1, which partially covers the portion of TRE's Property that it sold to the City. (2019 Draft ALUP at 3-11; Exhibit A.) The 2019 Draft ALUP further specifies that wooded areas, forests, and tree farms are incompatible in Safety Zone 1. (Id. at 3-16.) The Project changes are inconsistent with these policies, as they propose the planting of 80 trees in Safety Zone 1.

In sum, the changes to the Prior Project create new significant land use-related impacts, which the Addendum fails to analyze, and which lead to significant new impacts such that a subsequent or supplemental EIR must be prepared.'

B. The Project Changes Will Generate New Traffic Impacts
The Addendum states that the EIR Traffic Impact Analysis, prepared in 2008, found that under Project conditions, "six of the intersections identified in Goleta's traffic model are forecast to operate at an improved Volume/Capacity ratio for forecast year 2035 . Operational phase impacts to traffic and transportation are considered to be beneficial." Without further analysis, the Addendum then concludes that: "Although the removal of the full Fowler Road Extension to S. Fairview Avenue may slightly attenuate these beneficial impacts, overall, the Project would still improve traffic conditions by reducing congestion, providing a more direct east-west access across Old Town from implementation of the Ekwill Street
Extension, and enhancing biking and pedestrian walkways in Old Town." This analysis is insufficient.

For one, the Addendum provides no support (e.g., an updated traffic impact analysis, modeling, etc.) for its statement that the modified project (with no Fowler Road Extension) will still improve traffic conditions. As mentioned above, conclusory statements are not substantial evidence. Furthermore, the changes to the Prior Project undermine the traffic impact analysis in the Prior Project EIR. The Prior Project EIR relies on both the Fowler Connection Road and the Ekwill Connection Road in making a finding that the Prior Project would improve traffic conditions by reducing congestion. (Prior Project EIR at 53-58.) The Prior Project EIR does not analyze the impacts or benefits of just constructing the Ekwill Street Extension (e.g., the
impacts to Ekwill now that all traffic diverted from Hollister will be directed to Ekwill). To fill this gap, the
Addendum would need to analyze the impacts of only incrementally decreasing Hollister Avenue traffic - the objective of the Prior Project - and the additional traffic the Ekwill Street Connection will serve as a result of eliminating the Fowler Road Extension. This is especially significant considering the City is proposing reducing Hollister Avenue to a two lane road as part of its Hollister Avenue Complete Streets

& The Addendum fails to explain how the to creation of ESHA in the ROW does not modify the conclusion in the Prior Project EIR that it is consistent with the ALUP because the "proposed project use as road ways is not considered an incompatible use within airport safety areas 1, 2, and 3." (EIR at Appendix F-8.)
The Addendum also fails to analyze the consistency with the City's General Plan. General Plan Policy TE
5.3 specifically calls for the construction of Fowler Street to connect with Fairview Avenue and South Kellogg Avenue 'to more efficiently collect existing and future traffic from the southern portion of the Old Town area and from the Santa Barbara Airport, and to divert a portion of trips having origins or destinations
in this area away from a congested segment of Hollister Avenue in Old Town between Fairview Avenue and SR-217." With the modifications to the Prior Project, the Fowler Road Extension will no longer be consistent with this policy.

Mayor and City Council September 28, 2019
Page

Corridor Project. (See July 2013 Draft Traffic Operations Study Two-Lane Hollister Avenue, p. 2 [estimating 140 more peak hour trips for "Ekwill-Fowler" if Hollister Avenue is reduced to two lanes].)
Because the Addendum failed to update the Traffic Impact Analysis, the Addendum cannot properly find that the elimination of the Fowler Road Extension will not create new significant impacts. Accordingly, a subsequent or supplemental EIR must be prepared.

C. The Changes to the Project Will Increase Hazards to the Airport

The Addendum states that "the proposed Project modifications will result in a reduced roadway improvement footprint (temporary and permanent), habitat restoration, and reduced construction effort for all three roadway improvement components. Accordingly, no new hazards and hazardous materials- related impacts would occur." The Addendum, however, completely fails to analyze the hazard impacts associated with the new ESHA planned in the ROW, which, as discussed above, will attract new wildlife to
the area.

As noted in both the 1993 ALUP and the 2019 Draft ALUP, wildlife, particularly bird strikes, pose significant hazards to airports. (See 1993 ALUP, p. 43; 2019 Draft ALUP, p. 3-20.) The Federal Aviation Administration has even issued a report warning of these potential hazards and recommends that a 5 mile wildlife buffer be provided around airports. (See FAA Advisory Circular No. 150/5200-33B, Hazardous Wildlife Attractants On or Near Airports (Aug. 28, 2007/) (FAA Advisory) ["[m]ost public-use airports have large tracts of open, undeveloped land that provide added margins of safety and noise mitigation. These areas can also present potential hazards to aviation if they encourage wildlife to enter an airport's approach or departure airspace or air operations area"].) The Addendum fails to acknowledge the safety hazards associated with the proposed modifications to the Fowler Road Extension and its close proximity to the Airport. This analysis must be provided in a subsequent or supplemental EIR.
The City's staff report on the appeal claims that the ESHA created in the ROW will not result in a significant increase in bird habitat in the area and will thus not pose a significant safety risk. The staff report claims that the "440-acre Goleta Slough Ecological Reserve, and two creeks with riparian habitat ... are situated between the Airport and the ditch. Consequently, restoration activities within the proposed 0.34-acre area where native vegetation would be re-established within and around the ditch would not be likely to have any discernable effect on bird populations at the airport." For one, this analysis is not provided in the Addendum and thus should not be considered. But even so, this statement is incorrect. As shown in Exhibit D, the Goleta Slough is on the other side of the Airport, away from the runway located near the Property. Conversely, the ESHA proposed to be planted in the ROW is squarely within the approach to the Airport's runway with only marginal riparian habitat in close proximity. In other words, there is no evidence to support the staff report's claim that the planting of ESHA within the property TRE sold to the City will not "have any discernable effect" on safety hazards at the Airport.'

D. The Project's Impacts Can Be Avoided

The complete connection of Fowler Road to Fairview Avenue lost as part of the modifications creates a
"road to nowhere" scenario. While removal of a portion of Fowler Road reduced the impact to riparian trees and Old San Jose Creek, the City has created a solution that is incomplete and provides only partial

8 The staff report further claims that staff have been in communication with the Airport about the development of the Project and the Airport has not expressed any concerns. However, the staff report fails to mention whether staff has communicated with the ALUC, the entity with land use control over the area surrounding the Airport, or the Federal Aviation Administration about the proposed modifications to the Prior Project.

Mayor and City Council September 28, 2019
Page 8

benefit to the traffic circulation improvements contemplated for the Goleta Old Town industrial area and
vicinity of the Airport. Yet the Fowler improvement that remains, including the "knuckle" at Technology Drive, continues to move forward and remove 8 riparian trees identified as ESHA in the General Plan. Given the loss in connections of the Prior Project, the City should assess whether the continued removal of ESHA is justified for a road project that does not provide the services contemplated and approved by the
City.

Further, the mitigation site proposed in the ROW does not provide the highest ecological value for restoration and mitigation. There are other areas within Old San Jose Creek that would provide higher ecological value. The documents note that options were scarce and not on City-owned property. However, as noted above, TRE has offered alternative mitigation locations within the immediate vicinity, and along Old San Jose Creek, on its Property in areas that would provide greater ecological benefit, less impact to TRE, and less impact to Airport hazards. As the City never engaged with TRE regarding these options, they have not come to fruition. TRE is open to engaging in discussions with the City to evaluate other mitigation site options.

E. ESHA Setback Determination and Mapping Discrepancies
Because the Fowler Road Extension was eliminated from the Prior Project, no construction at Fowler Road is justified, especially when it will destroy ESHA and require further mitigation.

As noted in the staff report on the appeal, City General Plan Policy CE 1.4 requires protection for ESHA areas mapped in Figure 4-1 even if the habitat has been illegally removed. As such, General Plan Policies 2.2 and 2.3 come into play to determine the Streambed Protection Area, or riparian buffer. Per Policy 2.3(d) construction of public roads are allowed in ESHA "provided there is no feasible, less environmentally damaging alternative." Since the modifications to Fowler result in a "road to nowhere," we disagree that there are no less environmentally damaging alternatives. Construction on Fowler Road will not serve its original purpose, and its impact on ESHA should be reconsidered.

Further, we find it unfair that the TRE will be held to a stringent setback for ESHA that does not exist, but this setback does not also apply to the modified. Per the exemption above, we think the partial extension of Fowler Road should be reevaluated through this lens as it is removing ESHA without fulfilling the connectivity purpose of the approved Project. It is also our understanding that as part of the New Zoning Ordinance discussions that occurred at the Planning Commission last week, the Planning Commission denied allowing public roadway as an exemption to ESHA setback policies. In fact, the Planning Commission has moved to require a Major Conditional Use Permit for such improvements. This on its own should make the City reconsider the modifications it has made to the Prior Project and review whether a road without connection justifies the removal of ESHA - and whether the funding associated with this
reduced scope is justified.

Finally, as noted above, the modification of the Prior Project includes restoration of the entirety of the property that TRE sold to the City with ESHA. However there is a discrepancy in the mapping provided in the General Plan versus the mapping provided in the City's FBMMP which misrepresents the ESHA demarcation in the General Plan. Per the City's Streambed Protection policies, the extent of the ESHA is critical in quantifying the impact on ESHA and the setback that will occur to the TRE project. As such, further analysis and coordination with City Staff is required to map ESHA to ensure accuracy and
consistency moving forward.

Mayor and City Council September 28, 2019
Page 9

IV. CONCLUSION

We have serious concerns with the City's proposed course of action. We ask that the City grant the appeal, or in the alternative, put off acting so that we can have an opportunity to discuss these concerns further with the Council and staff. We believe a better solution can be arrived at through coordination and cooperation.

Sincerely,
Bil Cal
Beth A. Collins

19793332

EXhibit A

Overlay of Draft ALUP with TRE Properties

21n 5I

Draft Airport Land Use Compatibitity Plan
AIRPORT SAFETY ZONES
SAFETY ZONE 1 - RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE
SAFETY ZONE 2 - INNER APPROACH/DEPARTURE ZONE
SAFETY ZONE 3 - INNER TURNING ZONE
SAFETY ZONE 4 - OUTER APPROACH/DEPARTURE ZONE
SAFETY ZONE 5 - SIDELINE ZONE
SAFETY ZONE 6 - TRAFFIC PATTERN ZONE
PRIMARY SURFACE
RUNWAY

EXhibit B

NOTE: EXISTING R/W A PROPERTY BOUNDARIES ARE PER REFERENCED PER RECORO OF SURVEY BOOK 179, PAGES 37  38. UGENSED LAND SURVEYOR

OUA

FOVSER-2=1

1l

GRANTOR GRANTEE

WW PROJECT SURVEYOR: COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA
STATE OF CALIFORNTA
RIGHT OF WAY
APPRAISAL MAP

KELLOGG AVENUE & FAIRVIEW AVENUE
NOVEADOR, 2013

ENCINEERINC

3 ENGINEERS PLANNING A SURSENDCTION MANAGEMENT
REVS ON| SVEET NO. 11/17/2013 1

Exhibit C

PAWH 7D FUTURE EOWLER ROAD

EXHIBIT
WILLOW INDUSTRIAL PARK
CASE # 14-019-TM-DP-DRB
IMPORTANT NOTICE CITY OF GOLETA, CALIFORNIA 9/26/19
CONTRACTOR IS TO NOTH
TO BTARTING NAYY EX CAVATION OR R FLOWERS & ASSOCIATES, INC.

FAONS
GALL TOU PREE 1-000-422-4130 i Bartirn, CA 851C3 (00 884-22M4
PREUMNARY NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION DATE:
W.0. 0704

EXhibit

Airport Surroundings
Willow Sorings
Apartments

Maps.com 600 Goleta Valila OSen
Athletc

L Hollister Ave Hollister Ave

Sante Barbara Airbust

Santa Barbara
Airport

Tecolotito : dames Fowler-Rt

Creek

Mesa Rd

Harder Stadiura Mescaliten
Galcta Slough Isfand
State Marine

Siak Field lc'se Conservation
Area socal Gas Company La Golsta Gas Storage Field

San Clemente Villac (217

F
toricana Gardens UCSB Visitor Center- 0 Prieips Hall
- Department of Chemisty Beachside Bar

and Biochemistry BoachPe

EDESE

Exhibit E

SCALE: 1" = 50 GRAPHIC SCI g3Ln3 TVIXLSNANI ONNT NVld INEW3AOHdNI ELIS AHVNINI3Nd 880- 8 080- '620-021-+20 NdV (ARCH 2017 VINMO:I IVO V13109 10 AUD *ONI 'SULIVIDOSSY 3 SHIMOTS weerl drcapon (ozine CONSTITUCTION

Sl3

DeTNOWN I6 (OON INTN39NLA6 ITAVM A

*VNOTORPDE*

3A,180

DE TENTION

ON MA 483H0 8MI .4 94O LOCANTE CHEMOO EOAL GANSONO OVCR INDATIO R0R 348WDI 0Nns0 M 14200 DNUSI www wares 6a HOUSRO8S ON/7/W0E1P 1O1 APSCO: IVCE TORULDNG PENER UNE,

10STECOO ONOTNI L SOMSUIRO BAMD8 G2PO4084 CAD AO ONTES RE ANDGUTTER

. *SE G8 C6ELFET

Petition for Writ of Mandate,
Exhibit B

We^H ularsumoJg ›palups Farber Thornwood mo Real Estate, 6 LLC of Ekwill/Fowler Addendum I!uno
§
a Appeal E ejajog t'a'on way) epuasy 2019
4
October

Council Has the Power to Fix This

City received a CDP from CCC in March 2018
CDP requires a BMMP
Addendum analyzes environmental impacts of BMMP

The Council can direct staff to:
Work with TRE and the CCC to identify alternate, superior
mitigation sites in the BMMP.

bhfs.com 2

No Notice to Landowner (TRE)
City knew about TRE's proposed project for over five years, since 2014

E

CONCEPTUAL SITE
DEVELOPMENT PLAN
WILLOW INDUSTRIAL PARK
* APN 071-170-079, -080 & -083
CTYOF I

bhfs.com 3

No Notice to Landowner (TRE)
City bought TRE's property for a road in 2016, but changed the plan without
consulting TRE

Puauart lo CRC 2.250(o)(1) thia de been frodt Superior Court of Calforia, County of Senta Batbera, TE W. CILES, Cig AmeExy, Saste Bur No. 145408 D CITY OF GOLETA 2  130 Crcscos Drlve, Sutte : -Goleta, Caxfocaia 93117

DUTF MURPHY, Sute Bar No, 106091 CLIVER, SANDIFER A MURPHY FLED
24) S. Figar Saine 250 COAR OR
Las Angeles, Californis 90012-2593 JUM 172036
273) 621-2000 Prosimile: (213) 621-2211
Atoreya for Pletult /00

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF SANTA BARRARA

OF GOLETA. NO. 1SCV04239

Ptatens JUDGMENT AND FINAL ORDER C
CONDEMNATION
v. (Acaosser Parsel Nos. 071-270-079. 071-170- 2 ORD, 971-120-042, and 071 -1 70-4630 UNIVERSITY PROPZRI
17 Partoertipos SANTA DARDARA AND GOLETA WATER COMPANY: 13 SOUTHERN CALIPORNZA CAS (Excepe froms filing Stes - Opvommess Code $5103 COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA: JOHN X 19 PAGLIOTIL MARY PAOLIOTTE OOLETA SANITARY DISTRICT: OOLSTA Compaent filed Murch 27,2015
20 COUNTY WATER DISTRICT; SOUTIERN Asigned for elt perposes to: RIGHT OF WAY 21 CALIPORNLA EDISON COMPANY, & cerpootio: MARTHA FL WRIORDT; Joige Donne D. Geck
2 BERMANT DE VELOFMENT COMPANY. Dexrttl $84
E THORNWOOD REAL ESTAFE! 2 | Luc. a Cätomia Lionked Lisefly DOB ONE THROUGH DOB ONE 24 HUNDRED, Nd ALL PERSONS 25. UNKNOWN CLAIMING ANY TIILE OR DITEREST IN OP TO THE PROPERTY TO as BE CONDEMNEED,
27 Deicodacts
38

PLOCHS ANO FIAL ORDCE

bhfs.com 4

No Notice to Landowner (TRE)
City says it consulted with stakeholders about mitigation sites, but did not
talk to TRE

Staff Report on Appeal, pages 7-8:
resources (e.g. monarch butterflies), among others. In the summer of 2018, City staff
made considerable community outreach efforts to select certain mitigation sites, due to concerns about effects to eucalyptus trees and monarch butterflies in the Santa Barbara
Shores and Ellwood Mesa groves. In summary, the mitigation sites have been carefully

bhfs.com 5

No Notice to Landowner (TRE)
City told TRE it received notice, but CCC PRA response indicates that TRE in
fact did not receive notice

FRTE OF 97-
CALIFORNIA COASTAL COMMISSION
MORT STRDET, MOPTE 2006 D Coe N CrCM E D ME AH D6 PHE AWES GOUCTA CA SPTT
DE MEAGI SONOM 6410532a OUETA CA 9ATTY

371-08043 571-420-030
a Hemla DE MEAVESS
September 19. 2019 OUCTA CA SORSP

Beth Collins 371-00-49 571-630-008

Via e-mail: bcollins@bhfs.com OOUTTA CA 1OH7

RÊ: Your Pablic Records Act Request

Dear Ms. Collins: C
The Coastal Commission received a Public Records Act request from you dated Septcmber 13.2019 in which you ask for documents that relate to the noticing of CDP 4-17-0264.
Pursuant to Govemment Code section 6253. the Coastal Commission will make available all 0* • PEUOAI SEAY D
nequested items that (1) constitute "*public records;" (2) are identifiable. l apoo a reasonable description (meaning locatsble with reasonable effoni): (3) are in the Commission's possession; and
(4) are nor exempr from disclosure pursuani to California Govemment Code section 6254 or any 221-130-640

other express provision of law, We have conducted a reasonable search of our records and have Ca TONN UE - EYCOmLT
found two potentially responsive documents. file for CDP 4-17-0264 did contain the AACEA (NELARA CA IONN
mailing list; however, this file had been remubmined after file 4-13-0910 withdrawn. When our
saaff checked the file for 4-*3-0910, we found a mailing list, which I will send to you. You will see e entry for "University Properties." In addition, the file for 4-17-0264 has checklist with : DOX, LLE VEREITY OF CALE REGENTS OI
notatioo regarding when notice was sent out m "LOGTI CDE OMAOUE EA IARA CA IOIO RNe OVOPASE NO G

If you have any questions, please do not besitaic to contact mc al (415) 904-5298. 9500-05 37-400-04
De PE AVES 520 P AVE S4 VEXPOLA PLOMDIOI DO PEAVE 4
Sincerely, DOLETA CA RT OLIETA CA 1OPT

071-170-79 - 15.07 acres C. be A D0 PE ANE S DOLETA CA 909T w LETA CA ROTIT

071-170-80 - 3.08 acres 91-09004
Erin Chalmers 071-170-83 - 1.27 acres Senior Suaff Counsel Ea VG RTROOR D A

bhfs.com 6

No Notice to Landowner (TRE)
City told TRE it received notice, but CCC PRA response indicates that TRE in
fact did not receive notice (cont'd)

9100e '

• PE AVE - LON GORALD DEJAN & TRUSTEI PABON, GERALD FNLY REVOCAMUE

IQLETA CA D1R SUTA MLARMARA CA 10719 IES CONTDA ST SALIOER TOMS S D MEMC I CUESTA VEADE POLETA CA 0167 w QUENTA vERDe

SRAMILY REVOCARUE 2000 RVOCARLE
QOLCÉA CA SOP1 de Poco OOUTTA CA 19114

$79-430-01 571-00-00 501-130-005

NC KVE 2O
LETA CA OTRP OOUEYA CA FI S OOLCTA CA SOSET -O PHEAVEN De PeCENT DO POEAYES

SP1.139-688 S74420.012 9/130-0N

SO PHE AVERO IOOUNT, ALAN C De sEaT eE PETZ I LOMERCE LOVELLA THOST
A CA 1OTI ETVO GUNTOK AVE ENVOCAN US, BARTON J

FTURCA CA SOR DOLETA CA IOTE LANCTA MAABARA CA 10R11 OOUCTA CA 83H07

ses 571450-000 210 e0 371-420-401

PORE AVS 78 DE PEAVE SO ROOHUE W DAPIC
IA CA 129N7 10 PHC ASETE DOLITA CA 19V? O CAGS ONARO REVOCABUE TR

SOLETA CA 010 ON ETATZ ST 6 LANTA BAMRARA CA 12181 D
OOUETA CA 01

51. 130-054 071/00091 371-1200%6
HOLUC S 171 05-60 571-12000

8 GUDALACE PWIYS - DE E

1-F10-018 TY OF BANTA BARMARA 073-490-000

AMACAPA ET GITY OF SANTAI CLAPCKATILEOIHAY
SANCTA BAREARA CA OWM SN PCANES S PUCSIGA D JOHRIGON, RICHAR

SAXTA SAABARA C -O ME AVEO

20o0
COONTY OF SANTA BARGARA IT A DELAROSA

GOLETA CA $9117 9 000 AVENVG, U
QUETA CA 51R7 20 MAeT UETA CA 11E WIS CARPRITONA AVE ARPNITERA CA 10913 De HE AO DOLETA CA 91E7

85330
1o, $P1-00-001 g-00-00

LECA CA 1OTR OOLETA CA DNET e PRAVE 9 DOLETA CA 12TS RO PCAVET m FUCOROR

PA SALYADOR 571-130-018 C71-151-00
CROTHY ! 629.150-010

• PHIC ANE S DOUETA CA 10N17 PEMIELOT S MIS O PAS POMARO
SANTA SAARARA CASHS R ANE G DOUETA CA 1TO SD OALEYET

bhfs.com 7

No Notice to Landowner (TRE)
City told TRE it received notice, but CCC PRA response indicates that TRE in
fact did not receive notice (cont'd)

DE HCANR UTA CA 121T O1 PHE AVE 071-15064 91-20-€2
O PRE AVEDO Do PORAVES 571-130-020
GOLETA CA 10167 BOUFEA CA 10VE7 OOLETA CA 1010 OOLETA CA 10TP2 12O POE AVE 28 GOLETA CA 80417

- 671-190-0M1 671-00-00 @716S1-0C1 579-00-640
QUETA CA IHIY * DRLEYET 20 PE AVE 4 Oocupent $71-130-040
OUCTA CA 10H67 PHE AVE 4
OUCTA CA 99197 OOLETA CA 52119 20 MAVE* OOLETA CA 19117

) DALEY E DALEY ET 975-651-006 Oocupent $71.130-060 Ocopet $71-00-067 Oocupant STT.:30-068

OOLETA EA 99T D0 PEAVS D GOLPTA CA 12M LETA CA 101TI 00 POE AVE 68 OOLETA CA 19117

TMOOO
71-451-007 07h140-060

• pAUCY ET NO DALEVSTA 071-891-008 CATALIHA SAS PO s, os CA 95304 7ae ANACA COONTY FLODO CONTROUWATER CONS

071-130-000 471/130-000 071-140-053

00 s FAHENA ** B W CALETS - RTOPOR GOLETA CA SOM - NFARVIOR AM CA REV TR UOAS

STA CA 9O17 OOUEA CA EOTE? NO 5 KELLOOG AVE

671-130016 321-130-023 271/400-060

MS GALEY aT Öeoupant 806 & PARRYOR AVE Oe 485 KELLODS HOE REVOCABLE THOST 6OOT STOW CAMRYON N
SOLETA CA D1T GOLETA CA 99117

NS pAaY st 671-/653-000 4009 0r1
NO DALEY ET
ETA CA 1OH9 GOLETA CA SORE 4 pALeYat 071-131-000

ETA CA SONET sues HOLISTORA 4 MELLOOC WAY ICE WI REVOCABLE LANN
COLETA CA 19PO DOLETA CA 0117 TA BARRARA CA 82191

Oocepe 171-170-048 PHe THOMANOCO DA Ocevpent 971-170-08
2 S NELLOOS AVE Oocupant #N) 1 081000 ANE 371-170-462

DOLETA CA RITS

971-179-067 071-282-000
PRIE AVEA GOLETA CA SSHT 19 PUCOIOR ET 071-480-604

LETA CA 50H17 OQUETA CA OHT

PE PLACERÇIA ER 973-189-000 109 S IOILLOOS A 0rt-180-00

OLETA CA 1ON7 OOLETA CA TOPR HE 5 122L008 AVE
DOUTZA CA DEO

bhfs.com 8

No Notice to Landowner (TRE)
City told TRE it received notice, but CCC PRA response indicates that TRE in
fact did not receive notice (cont'd)
AFFLACATION NOL 44-17-0244

ACTIÓN DATE NITIALS

NTLICATION E Bholn Be
D MA

PERTY UST

PPLCATION FILED

creem moglal Sut Afelr

STATUSLEEE
E SENT

ARH

NOI MALND

DATE MES

HOTICE MAILED TO
APPAGENT  LOCAL O0

bhfs.com 9

Alternative, Better Sites Are Available
City's analysis focuses only on City owned property, but far
superior mitigation sites are available
TRE has offered to host mitigation on its property, in a location
identified in the City's EIR as superior
2.2 Site Selection

The EIR states that permanent loss of willow riparian woodland habitat must be mitigated by
restoring riparian habitat, with top priority given to restoring areas along Old San Jose Creek where
native riparian habitat is lacking due to invasion of non-native species. Habitat and trees removed in

san Pedro Creek SIEn

€

Alternative, Better Sites Are Available

There is approximately 1.5 acres of non-native vegetation
area in Old San Jose Creek can
be restored, but the City
proposes 0.51 acres in the
Fowler drainage ditch area.

bhfs.com / 11

A
woo'sjug
(PE A4 E HON 0gI 20y PIOS (DE TS D) SoUnDOy UOedpa WpPUTy ndl Unswew/D 17 sa) pe orolwwortey (8102) MA (W /33) en vIIDg Dvm

Seleca OaPaf; Mus › Plant Entire Road y Opted SELDDNO

SpAg woHog-wIpEg

(3008(3299

Cq/DE WURO 10 9D 8

grao eud; cuu paiD §
'pea}sul

9
bhfs.com p o Plant Entire Road pado ÁHD 'pe}su) -dW-d W aYo BErUwO avou H31MOd •LANTING NV7d 3TYOS
MITIGATI(

238

8

wd-()-C LLDCROCRRY POODLAND NOLLONEISNOO HOH LON - TLLIMEnS
§

D

Mitigation Location Is Poor Planning

Thormwood Real Estate, LIG
yaaD oso /UDs pIO

Project Site nempua enous City Boundary
E Gty of Goleta Right-of-Way
M Thornwood Real Estate, LLC S3 Coy of Goleta ESHA per the General Man P37f050
100-ft Buffer City of Goleta ESHA per the General Plan
Mitigation Area
100-ft Buffer Mitigation Area
40 80
Feet z

bhfs.com / 14 * Microrott nd its Uiensors (0 2019.

Mitigation Location Is Poor Planning

TANE

ud eia, FUTURE FOWLER ROAD

EXHIBIT
WILLOW INDUSTRIAL PARK

INPORTANT NOTICE CASE # 14-019-TM-DP-DRB

EL UTLTYLOCAPON CITY OF GOLETA, CALIFORNIA

CAL VECL ISEE 1 800403 47
NOT FOR CON STIEJCT

bhfs.com |15

Mitigation Location Is Poor Planning

Willow Sorings
Apurtments

Maps.com 60 8 Golota Valla CauGreen Medica
Athlote Ci
EL
Hollister Ave Holister Aver:

Santa Barbara Airbus

Santa Barbara
Airport Santa Barl

Tecolotito vames

Creck

Mesa Rd Mescalitän
Harder Stodium Goleta Slough Island
State Marine

Storke Fieid; JCsS Conservation

E Area SaCal Gas Company La Golata Gas Storage Field

San Clemente 217

6
Tropicana Gardens UCSB Visiter Center- "a Phielps Hall. Golatae Beachside Bar
5 Department of Cnemisty
and Biochemistry Deach Pak

bhfs.com | 16

Mitigation Location Is Poor Planning

Draft Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan
AIRPORT SAFETY ZONES
• SAFETY ZONE 1 - RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE
+ SAFETY ZONE 2 - MHER APPROACH DEPARTURE ZOWE
• SAFETY ZONE 3 • MINER TURMING ZONE
• SAFETY ZONE 4 • OUTER APPROACH DEPARTURE ZONE
• SAFETY ZOWE 8 . SIDELNE ZONE
• SAFETY ZONE 6 • TRAFFIC PATTE • ZONE
• PRIMARY SURFACE
+ RUMWAY

bhfs.com | 17

cm Seugog

110O oju) suditen Santa Barbara Hackerspact ATAHO

Pine'A 2 PAlEIeUOus E Sowew pieM

aAuo taaum 7 Cinabrication 4210 esor ues 8 %

P woo'sjyq

¿suonsan Repair
Mix

Mcleans Auto Body & Paint, Inc Snoppe inando's Smög Check

874 Bob Woolever
83 Fairview Motors Bräkes & SFairview Ave / Car Rental

San Pedro Creek 3
Sifairview/Ave [a) pe ayacy sauier py Jajmoy säwer

53 =

Petition for Writ of Mandate.
Exhibit C

Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck

Beth A. Collins
November 1, 2019 Attorney at Law
805.882.1419 tel
805.965.4333 fax
bcollins@bhfs.com

VIA EMAIL AND FEDERAL EXPRESS

City of Goleta City Council and Planning Commission c/o City Clerk
130 Cremona Drive, Suite B
Goleta, CA 93117
dconstantino@cityofgoleta.org

RE: Notice of Commencement of Action
Ekwill Street and Fowler Road Extensions Project, Case No. 11-EIR-02

Dear Honorable City Council Members and Planning Commissioners:
Please take notice pursuant to Public Resources Code section 21167.5, that Thornwood Real Estate, LLC ("TRE") intends to file a petition (lawsuit) against the City of Goleta, the City of Goleta City Council, and the City of Goleta Planning Commission (collectively, "City"), challenging the City's approval of the Addendum to the Final Environmental Impact Report for the Ekwill Street and Fowler Road Extensions Project (State Clearinghouse No. 2004061072), Case No. 11-EIR-02 and the Final Biological Mitigation and Monitoring Program for the Ekwill Street and Fowler Road Extensions Project.
This action will be brought under the California Environmental Quality Act (Public Resources Code § 21000 et seq.), as well as any other applicable laws.

Sincerely,
Bit Cl
Beth A. Collins

19911040

1021 Anacapa Street, 2nd Floor
Santa Barbara, CA 93101-2711
main 805.963.7000

bhfs.com Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, LLP

From:
Sent: TrackingUpdates@fedex.com

To: Monday, November 04, 2019 8:06 AM

Subject: FedEx Shipment 776880712186 Delivered

Your package has been delivered
Tracking # 776880712186

Ship date:
Fri, 11/1/2019 Delivery date:

Caitlin Malone Mon, 11/4/2019 8:03

SANTA BARBARA, CA 93101 am

US City Clerk

FecEx City of Goleta City Council &

Delivered PC
130 Cremona Drive
Suite
GOLETA, CA 93117
US

Shipment Facts
Our records indicate that the following package has been delivered.

Tracking number: 776880712186

Status: Delivered: 11/04/2019 08:03
AM Signed for By:
T.TOWNES

Reference: 041433.0001

Signed for by: T.TOWNES

Delivery location: Goleta, CA

Delivered to: Receptionist/Front Desk
Service type: FedEx First Overnight®

Packaging type: FedEx® Envelope

Number of pieces: 1

Weight: 0.50 lb.

Special handling/Services: Deliver Weekday

Standard transit: 11/4/2019 by 9:00 am

1 PROOF OF SERVICE BY OVERNIGHT DELIVERYAND ELECTRONIC MAIL

2 a am a citizen of the United States and employed in Santa Barbara County, California.

3 am over the age of eighteen years and not a party to the within-entitled action. My business

4 address is Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, LLP, 1021 Anacapa Street, 2nd Floor, Santa

5 Barbara, California 93101-2711. On November 1, 2019, I deposited with Federal Express, a true

6 and correct copy of the within documents:

7 NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION - EKWILL
STREET AND FOWLER ROAD EXTENSIONS PROJECT, 8 CASE NO.11 -EIR - 02

9 in a sealed envelope, addressed as follows:

10 City Clerk

130 Cremona Drive 11LZ-101€6 VO RIBQINg dTT*XOIHHOS HIAMVA LIVAH BROWNSTEIN 11 City of Goleta City Council & PC
J001d puz aans edeseuv izol 12 Suite B
GOLETA, CA 93117
13

14 And by electronic mail to the City Clerk of the City of Goleta at
15 dconstantino@cityofgoleta.org.

16 Following ordinary business practices, the envelope was sealed and placed for collection

17 by Federal Express on this date, and would, in the ordinary course of business, be retrieved by

18 Federal Express for overnight delivery on this date.

19 I declare that I am employed in the office of a member of the bar of this court at whose

20 direction the service was made.

21 Executed on November 4, 2019, at Santa Barbara, California.

22 Cast Malone Caitlin Malone 23

24

25

26

27

28

19915155

PROOF OF SERVICE BY MAIL -

2 I am a citizen of the United States and employed in Santa Barbara County, California.

3 am over the age of eighteen years and not a party to the within-entitled action. My business

4 address is Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, LLP, 1021 Anacapa Street, 2nd Floor, Santa

5 Barbara, California 93101-2711. I am readily familiar with this firm's practice for collection and

6 processing of correspondence for mailing with the United States Postal Service. On November 5,

7 2019, I placed with this firm at the above address for deposit with the United States Postal

8 Service a true and correct copy of the within document(s):

9 NOTICE TO ATTORNEY GENERAL
dTT'NOAHHOS HAAHVA LIVAH NIZISNMONE 10 in a sealed envelope, postage fully paid, addressed as follows:

11 Office of the Attorney General L1LZ-10166 VD *eIBqIeg BuRS 10013 puz 490nS Bdessuy IZOl 1300 "I" Street 12 Sacramento, CA 95814-2919
13

14 Following ordinary business practices, the envelope was scaled and placed for collection

15 and mailing on this date, and would, in the ordinary course of business, be deposited with the

16 United States Postal Service on this date.

17 I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the above

18 is true and correct.

19 Executed on November 5, 2019, at Santa Barbara, California.

20 Ciubs L Muline Caitlin K. Malone 21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

PROOF OF SERVICE

98:Zl Wd 8- AON G10Z BOI:O OLNEWVEONS 7VU9030 AGNUOII 31 5003