SUM-100
SUMMONS FOR COURT USE ONLY (SOLO PARA USO DE LA CORTE) (CITACION JUDICIAL)
NOTICE TO DEFENDANT: ELECTRONICALLY FILED (AVISO AL DEMANDADO): Superior Court of Califomia,
CITY OF SAN DIEGO; and DOES 1 through 100 County of San Diego
[Additional parties identified on SUM-200(A) attached hereto] 05/8/2022 at D8:49:19 AM

YOU ARE BEING SUED BY PLAINTIFF: Clerk of the Superior Court
(LO ESTÁ DEMANDANDO EL DEMANDANTE): By Carolina Miranda, Deputy Clerk

PROJECT FOR OPEN GOVERNMENT

NOTICE! You have been sued. The court may decide against you without your being heard unless you respond within 30 days. Read the information
below. You have 30 CALENDAR DAYS after this summons and legal papers are served on you to file a written response at this court and have a copy served on the plaintiff. A letter or phone call will not protect you. Your written response must be in proper legal form if you want the court to hear your case. There may be a court form that you can use for your response. You can find these court forms and more information at the California Courts Online Self-Help Center (www.courtinfo.ca.gov/selfhelp), your county law library, or the courthouse nearest you. If you cannot pay the filing fee, ask the court clerk for a fee waiver form. do If you do not file your response on time, you may lose the case by default, and your wages, money, and property may be taken without further warning from the court. There are other legal requirements. You may want to call an attorney right away. If you do not know an attorney, you may want to call an attorney referral service. If you cannot afford an attorney, you may be eligible for free legal services from a nonprofit legal services program. You can locate these nonprofit groups at the California Legal Services Web site (www.lawhelpcalifornia.org), the California Courts Online Self-Help Center (www.courtinfo.ca.gov/selfhelp), or by contacting your local court or county bar association. NOTE: The court has a statutory lien for waived fees and costs on any settlement or arbitration award of $10,000 or more in a civil case. The court's lien must be paid before the court will dismiss the case. ¡AVISO! Lo han demandado. Si no responde dentro de 30 días, la corte puede decidir en su contra sin su escuchar su versión. Lea la información € continuación. Tiene 30 DÍAS DE CALENDARIO después de que le entreguen esta citación papeles legales para presentar una respuesta por escrito en esta corte y hacer que se entregue una copia al demandante. Una carta o una llamada telefónica no lo protegen. Su respuesta por escrito tiene que estar en formato legal correcto si desea que procesen : u caso en la corte. Es posible que haya un formulario que usted pueda usar para su respuesta. Puede encontrar estos formularios de la corte y más información en el Centro de Ayuda de las Cortes de California (www.sucorte.ca.gov), en la biblioteca de leyes de su condado o en la corte que le quede más cerca. Si no puede pagar la cuota de presentación, pida al secretario de la corte que le dé un formulario de exención de pago de cuotas. Si no presenta su respuesta : tiempo, puede perder el caso por incumplimiento y la corte le
podrá quitar su sueldo, dinero y bienes sin más advertencia. Hay otros requisitos legales. Es recomendable que llame a un abogado inmediatamente. Si no conoce a un abogado, puede llamar a un servicio de remisión a abogados. Si no puede pagar a abogado, es posible que cumpla con los requisitos para obtener servicios legales gratuitos de un programa de servicios legales sin fines de lucro. Puede encontrar estos grupos sin fines de lucro en el sitio web de California Legal Services, (www.lawhelpcalifornia.org), en el Centro de Ayuda de las Cortes de California, (www.sucorte.ca.gov) o poniéndose en contacto con la corte o el la colegio de abogados locales. AVISO: Por ley, la corte tiene derecho a reclamar las cuotas y los costos exentos por imponer un gravamen sobre cualquier recuperación de $10,000 ó más de valor recibida mediante un acuerdo o una concesión de arbitraje en un caso de derecho civil. Tiene que pagar el gravamen de la corte antes de que la corte pueda desech el caso.

The name and address of the court IS: CASE NUMBER:
(El nombre y dirección de la corte es): San Diego County Superior Court (Número del Caso): M): 37-2022-00018873-CU-WM-CTL

330 West Broadway
San Diego, CA 92101 The name, address, and telephone number of plaintiff's attorney, or plaintiff without an attorney, iS: (El nombre, la dirección y el número de teléfono del abogado del demandante, o del demandante que no tiene abogado, es): Briggs Law Corporation, Cory J. Briggs, 99 East "C" Street, Suite 111, Upland, CA 91786, 909-949-7115
DATE: 05/19/2022 Clerk. by C.Avrta Deputy C. Miranda (Fecha) (Secretario) (Adjunto)
(For proof of service of this summons, use Proof of Service of Summons (form POS-010).) (Para prueba de entrega de esta citatión use el formulario Proof of Service of Summons, (POS-010)). NOTICE TO THE PERSON SERVED: You are served
CaUFL 1. as an individual defendant.
2. as the person sued under the fictitious name of (specify):

3. on behalf of (specify):

under:

96 0000 CCP 416.10 (corporation) CCP 416.60 (minor)
CCP 416.20 (defunct corporation) CCP 416.70 (conservatee)
CCP 416.40 (association or partnership) CCP 416.90 (authorized person)
tpor other (specify):
4. - by personal delivery on (date): Page 1 of 1

Form Adopted for Mandatory Use SUMMONS Code of Civil Procedure §5 412.20, 465
www.courtinfo.ca.gov Judicial Council of California
SUM-100 [Rev. July 1, 2009] American LegalNet, Inc. www.FormsWorkflow.com

SUM-200(A)
SHORT TITLE: CASE NUMBER:

Froject for Open Government v. City of San Diego et al.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
This form may be used as an attachment to any summons if space does not permit the listing of all parties on the summons. If this attachment is used, insert the following statement in the plaintiff or defendant box on the summons: "Additional Parties
Attachment form is attached."

List additional parties (Check only one box. Use a separate page for each type of party.):
Plaintiff V Defendant Cross-Complainant Cross-Defendant
TAILGATE DEVELOPMENT, LLC; PADRES NEXT FIFTY, LCC; and DOES 101 through 1,000

Page 2 of 2

Page 1 of 1

Form Adopted for Mandatory Use Judicial Council of California ADDITIONAL PARTIES ATTACHMENT
SUM-200(A) [Rev. January . 2007] Attachment to Summons American LegalNet, Inc.
www.FormsWorkfiow.com

CM-010
ATTORNEY OR PARTY THOUT ATTORNEY (Namo,State Bar number, and address): -BRIGGS LAW CORPORATION file: 2060.041 FOR COURT USE ONLY

Cory J. Briggs (State Bar no. 176284) 99 East "C" Street, Suite 111 Upland, CA 91786 TELEPHONE NO.: 909-949-7115 FAX NO.:
ATTORNEY FOR (Name): Project for Open Government ELECTRONICALLY FILED
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF San Diego Superior Court of Califomia,
County of San Diego
STREET ADDRESS: 330West Broadway MAILING ADDRESS: 330West Broadway 05/8/2022 at D8:49:19 AM
CITY AND ZIP CODE: San Diego, CA 92101 Clerk of the Superior Court
BRANCH NAME: Hall of Justice By Carolina Mranda, Deputy Clerk

CASE NAME: Project for Open Government v. City of San Diego et al.
CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET Complex Case Designation CASE NUMBER:

V Unlimited - Limited 37-2022-00018873-CU-WM-CTL

(Amount (Amount - Counter - Joinder

demanded demanded is Filed with first appearance by defendant JUDGE: Judge Matthew C. Braner
exceeds $25,000) $25,000 or less) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.402) DEPT:
Items 1-6 below must be completed (see instructions on page 2).
Check one box below for the case type that best describes this case:
Auto Tort Contract Provisionally Complex Civil Litigation
Auto (22) Breach of contract/warranty (06) (Cal. Rules of Court, rules 3.400-3.403)

Uninsured motorist (46) Rule 3.740 collections (09) Antitrust/Trade regulation (03)
Other PI/PD/WD (Personal Injury/Property Other collections (09) Construction defect (10)
Damage/Wrongful Death) Tort Insurance coverage (18) Mass tort (40)
Asbestos (04) Other contract (37) Securities litigation (28)
Product liability (24) Real Property
Medical malpractice (45) Environmental/Toxic tort (30)
Eminent domain/Inverse Insurance coverage claims arising from the
Other PI/PD/WD (23) condemnation (14) above listed provisionally complex case
Non-PI/PD/WD (Other) Tort Wrongful eviction (33) types (41)

Business tort/unfair business practice (07) Other real property (26) Enforcement of Judgment

Civil rights (08) Unlawful Detainer Enforcement of judgment (20)
Defamation (13) Commercial (31) Miscellaneous Civil Complaint
Fraud (16) Residential (32) RICO (27)
Intellectual property (19) Drugs (38) Other complaint (not specified above) (42)
Professional negligence (25) Judicial Review
Other non-PI/PD/WD tort (35) Asset forfeiture (05) Miscellaneous Civil Petition

Employment Petition re: arbitration award (11) Partnership and corporate governance (21)

Wrongful termination (36) Writ of mandate (02) Other petition (not specified above) (43)

Other employment (15) Other judicial review (39)
2. This case is is not complex under rule 3.400 of the California Rules of Court. If the case is complex, mark the
factors requiring exceptional judicial management:
a. Large number of separately represented parties d. Large number of witnesses
b Extensive motion practice raising difficult or novel e. Coordination with related actions pending in one or more courts
issues that will be time-consuming to resolve in other counties, states, or countries, or in a federal court
c. 3 Substantial amount of documentary evidence Substantial postjudgment judicial supervision
3. Remedies sought (check all that apply): a. monetary b.  nonmonetary; declaratory or injunctive relief C. Ipunitive
4. Number of causes of action (specify): One
5. This case is is not a class action suit.
6. If there are any known related cases, file and serve a notice of related case. (You may use form CM-015.)
Date: May 17, 2022
Cory J. Briggs 1- lay 4. frizo

(TYPE OR PRINT NAME) (SIGNATURE OF PARTY OR ATTORNEY FOR PARTY)
NOTICE Plaintiff must file this cover sheet with the first paper filed in the action or proceeding (except small claims cases or cases filed under the Probate Code, Family Code, or Welfare and Institutions Code). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.220.) Failure to file may result in sanctions. File this cover sheet in addition to any cover sheet required by local court rule. If this case is complex under rule 3.400 et seq. of the California Rules of Court, you must serve a copy of this cover sheet on all other parties to the action or proceeding. Unless this is a collections case under rule 3.740 or a complex case, this cover sheet will be used for statistical purposes only. Page 1 of 2

Form Adopted for Mandatory Use CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET Cal. Rules of Court, rules 2.30, 3.220, 3.400-3.403, 3.74
Judicial Council of California Cal. Standards of Judicial Administration, std. 3.10
CM-010 [(Rev. July 1, 2007] www.courtinfo.ca.gov
American LegalNet, Inc. www.FormsWorkflow.com

INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO COMPLETE THE COVER SHEET CM-010

To Plaintiffs and Others Filing First Papers. If you are filing a first paper (for example, complaint) in a civil case, you must complete and file, along with your first paper, the Civil Case Cover Sheet contained on page 1. This information will be used to compile statistics about the types and numbers of cases filed. You must complete items 1 through 6 on the sheet. In item 1, you must check one box for the case type that best describes the case. If the case fits both a general and a more specific type of case listed in item 1, check the more specific one. If the case has multiple causes of action, check the box that best indicates the primary cause of action. To assist you in completing the sheet, examples of the cases that belong under each case type in item 1 are provided below. A cover sheet must be filed only with your initial paper. Failure to file cover sheet with the first paper filed in a civil case may subject a party, its counsel, or both to sanctions under rules 2.30 and 3.220 of the California Rules of Court.
To Parties in Rule 3.740 Collections Cases. A "collections case" under rule 3.740 is defined as an action for recovery of money owed in a sum stated to be certain that is not more than $25,000, exclusive of interest and attorney's fees, arising from a transaction in which property, services, or money was acquired on credit. A collections case does not include an action seeking the following: (1) tort damages, (2) punitive damages, (3) recovery of real property, (4) recovery of personal property, or (5) a prejudgment writ of attachment. The identification of a case as a rule 3.740 collections case on this form means that it will be exempt from the general time-for-service requirements and case management rules, unless a defendant files a responsive pleading. A rule 3.740 collections case will be subject to the requirements for service and obtaining a judgment in rule 3.740. To Parties in Complex Cases. In complex cases only, parties must also use the Civil Case Cover Sheet to designate whether the case iS complex. If a plaintiff believes the case is complex under rule 3.400 of the California Rules of Court, this must be indicated by completing the appropriate boxes in items 1 and 2. If : plaintiff designates a case as complex, the cover sheet must be served with the complaint on all parties to the action. A defendant may file and serve no later than the time of its first appearance a joinder in the plaintiff's designation, a counter-designation that the case is not complex, or, if the plaintiff has made no designation, a designation that the case is complex. CASE TYPES AND EXAMPLES
Auto Tort Contract Provisionally Complex Civil Litigation (Cal.
Auto (22)-Personal Injury/Property Breach of Contract/Warranty (06) Rules of Court Rules 3.400-3.403)
Damage/Wrongful Death Breach of Rental/Lease Antitrust/Trade Regulation (03)
Uninsured Motorist (46) (if the Contract (not unlawful detainer Construction Defect (10)
case involves an uninsured or wrongful eviction) Claims Involving Mass Tort (40)
motorist claim subject to Contract/Warranty Breach-Seller Securities Litigation (28)
arbitration, check this item Plaintiff (not fraud or negligence) Environmental/Toxic Tort (30)
instead of Auto) Negligent Breach of Contract/ Insurance Coverage Claims
Other PI/PD/WD (Personal Injury/ Warranty (arising from provisionally complex
Property Damage/Wrongful Death) Other Breach of Contract/Warranty case type listed above) (41)

Tort Collections (e.g., money owed, open Enforcement of Judgment
Asbestos (04) book accounts) (09) Enforcement of Judgment (20)
Asbestos Property Damage collection Case-Seller Plaintiff
Asbestos Personal Injury/ Other Promissory Note/Collections Abstract of Judgment (Out of County)

Wrongful Death Case Confession of Judgment (non-
Product Liability (not asbestos or Insurance Coverage (not provisionally domestic relations)
toxic/environmental) (24) complex) (18) Sister State Judgment
Medical Malpractice (45) Auto Subrogation Administrative Agency Award
Medical Malpractice- Other Coverage (not unpaid taxes)
Physicians & Surgeons Other Contract (37) Petition/Certification of Entry of
Other Professional Health Care Contractual Fraud Judgment on Unpaid Taxes
Malpractice Other Contract Dispute Other Enforcement of Judgment
Other PI/PD/WD (23) Real Property Case

Premises Liability (e.g., slip Eminent Domain/Inverse Miscellaneous Civil Complaint
and fall) Condemnation (14) RICO (27)
Intentional Bodily Injury/PD/WD Wrongful Eviction (33) Other Complaint (not specified
(e.g., assault, vandalism) above) (42)
Intentional Infliction of Other Real Property (e.g., quiet title) (26)
Writ of Possession of Real Property Declaratory Relief Only
Emotional Distress Negligent Infliction of Mortgage Foreclosure Injunctive Relief Only (non-
Quiet Title harassment)

Emotional Distress
Other PI/PD/WD Other Real Property (not eminent Mechanics Lien
domain, landlord/tenant, or Other Commercial Complaint

Non-PI/PD/WD (Other) Tort foreclosure) Case (non-tort/non-complex)

Business Tort/Unfair Business Unlawful Detainer Other Civil Complaint

Practice (07) Commercial (31) (non-tort/non-complex)

Civil Rights (e.g., discrimination, Residential (32) Miscellaneous Civil Petition

false arrest) (not civil Partnership and Corporate
harassment) (08) Drugs (38) (if the case involves illegal Governance (21)
Defamation (e.g., slander, libel) drugs, check this item; otherwise, report as Commercial or Residential) Other Petition (not specified

(13) Judicial Review above) (43)

Fraud (16) Asset Forfeiture (05) Civil Harassment

Intellectual Property (19) Petition Re: Arbitration Award (11) Workplace Violence

Professional Negligence (25) Writ of Mandate (02) Elder/Dependent Adult

Legal Malpractice Writ-Administrative Mandamus Abuse

Other Professional Malpractice Writ-Mandamus on Limited Court Election Contest

(not medical or legal) Case Matter Petition for Name Change
Other Non-PI/PD/WD Tort (35) Writ-Other Limited Court Case Petition for Relief From Late
Claim
Employment Wrongful Termination (36) Review Other Civil Petition

Other Employment (15) Other Judicial Review (39) Review of Health Officer Order Notice of Appeal-Labor
Commissioner Appeals
CM-010 [Rev. July 1, 2007] CIVIL CASE COVER SHEET Page 2 of 2

-

1 BRIGGS LAW CORPORATION [FILE: 2060.04]

2 Cory J. Briggs (SBN 176284) Janna M. Ferraro (SBN 328921) ELECTRONICALLY FILED

3 99 East "C" Street, Suite 111 Superior Court of Califoria,

Upland, CA 91786 County of San Diego

Telephone: 909-949-7115 05/8/2022 at 08:49:19 AMl

4 Clerk of the Superior Court

Attorney for Plaintiff and Petitioner Project for By Carolina Miranda, Deputy Clerk

5 Open Government

6

7

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO - HALL OF JUSTICE

10

11 PROJECT FOR OPEN GOVERNMENT, CASE NO. 37-2022-00018873-CU-WM-CTL

12 Plaintiff and Petitioner, VERIFIED COMPLAINT FOR

VS. DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE

13 RELIEF AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE

14 CITY OF SAN DIEGO; and DOES 1 through 100, 1 CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL

15 Defendants and Respondents, QUALITY ACT AND OTHER LAWS

ILGATE DEVELOPMENT, LLC; PADRES NEXT 16 FIFTY, LCC; and DOES 101 through 1,000,

17 Defendants and Real Parties in Interest.

18

19 Plaintiff and Petitioner PROJECT FOR OPEN GOVERNMENT ("Petitioner") alleges as

20 follows:

21 Parties

22 1.

23 Petitioner is a non-profit corporation formed and operating under the laws of the State

24 of California. It serves as a government "watchdog" for purposes of making sure that public agencies
and officials are transparent in their conduct, accountable for their conduct, and conform their conduct

25 to all applicable legal requirements. At least one of Petitioner's members resides in and pays taxes in
26 the City of San Diego.

27 2. Defendant and Respondent CITY OF SAN DIEGO ("Respondent") is a public agency
28 under Section 21063 of the Public Resources Code. Respondent is authorized and required by law to

-

2 hold public hearings to determine whether the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") applies
to development within its jurisdiction, to determine the adequacy of and certify environmental
3 documents prepared pursuant to CEQA, and to determine whether a project is compatible with the

4

5 objectives, policies, general land uses, and programs specified in Respondent's General Plan.

3. Petitioner is informed and believes and on that basis alleges that Defendants and Real
6 Parties in Interest TAILGATE DEVELOPMENT, LLC, and PADRES NEXT FIFTY, LCC
7 (collectively, "RPI'), are the applicants for the proposed project (which includes the related contract

8

9 to which Respondent and RPI are parties) that is the subject of this lawsuit.
4. The true names and capacities of the Defendants/Respondents identified as DOES
10 through 100 and Defendants/Real Parties in Interest identified as DOES 101 through 1,000 are unknown
11 to Petitioner, who will seek the Court's permission to amend this pleading in order to allege the true
12 name and capacities as soon as they are ascertained. Petitioner is informed and believes and on that
13 basis alleges that each of the fictitiously named Defendants/Respondents 1 through 100 has jurisdiction
14 by law over one or more aspects of the proposed project that is the subject of this lawsuit and that each
15 of the fictitiously named Defendants/Real Parties in Interest 101 through 1,000 either claims an
16 ownership interest in the proposed project or has some other cognizable interest in the proposed project.

17 Background Information

18 5. On or about April 19, 2022, Respondent's city council approved that certain
19 I "RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN DIEGO APPROVING A DISPOSITION

20 AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE TAILGATE PARK SITE IN THE DOWNTOWN
21 SAN DIEGO COMMUNITY PLANNING AREA, MAKING CERTAIN RELATED FINDINGS AND
22 DETERMINATIONS, AND APPROVING RELATED ACTIONS" with RPI (the "Project"). The

23

24 Project entails Respondent's sale and RPI's future development of real property commonly known as

25 Tailgate Park (immediately adjacent to Petco Park) in downtown San Diego.

6.

26 Petitioner opposes the Project (including all entitlements and other aspects thereof) and

27 challenges certain actions taken by Respondent. In particular, Petitioner seeks to invalidate the Project's
approval on the grounds, among others, that Respondent has violated CEQA, the Planning and Zoning
28 Law (*PZL"), the San Diego City Charter, the San Diego Municipal Code, and/or other laws.

VERIFIED COMPLAINT AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE ETC. Page 2

Notice Requirements and Time Limitations

2 7. This lawsuit was commenced not more than 30 days after the notice authorized by Public
3 Resources Code Section 21152(a) was filed (if such a notice was filed).

4 8. Petitioner has caused a Notice of Commencement of Action to be served on Respondent,

5 as required by Public Resources Code Section 21167.5. A true and correct copy of the Notice of

6 Commencement of Action is attached to this pleading as Exhibit "A."

7 9. Petitioner will have caused a copy of this pleading to be served on the Attorney General

8 not more than 10 days after its filing, as required by Public Resources Code Section 21167.7 and Code

9 of Civil Procedure Section 388.

10 Jurisdiction and Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies

11 10. Petitioner seeks review by and relief from this Court under Public Resources Code

12 Section 21168 or 21168.5, as applicable; Government Code Section 65000 et seq.; and Code of Civil

13 Procedure Sections 526a, 1060 et seq., and 1084 et seq., among other provisions of law.

14 11. Petitioner exhausted administrative remedies to the extent required by law; by way of

15 example and without limitation, at least one of Petitioner's members expressed opposition to the
16 Project. Additionally and/or alternatively, Petitioner was not required to exhaust its administrative
17 remedies under the circumstances presented by the Project.

18 12. Respondent's conduct in approving the Project without complying with CEQA and other

19 applicable laws constitutes: prejudicial abuse of discretion because, as alleged in this pleading, it failed
20 to proceed in the manner required by law and made findings not supported by substantial evidence.

21 13. Petitioner has no plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law, since
22 its members and other members of the public will suffer irreparable harm as a result of Respondent's

23 violations of CEQA and other laws. Respondent's approval of the Project also rests on its failure to
24 satisfy a clear, present, ministerial duty to act in accordance with those laws. Even when Respondent

25 is permitted or required by law to exercise its discretion in approving projects under those laws, it
26 remains under a clear, present, ministerial duty to exercise its discretion within the limits of and in a

27 manner consistent with those laws. Respondent has had and continues to have the capacity and ability

28 to approve the Project within the time limits of and in a manner consistent with those laws, but

VERIFIED COMPLAINT AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE ETC. Page 3

Respondent has failed and refuses to do so and has exercised its discretion beyond the limits of and in

2 a manner that is not consistent with those laws.

3 14. Petitioner has a beneficial right and interest in Respondent's fulfillment of all its legal
4 duties, as alleged in this pleading.

5 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION: Illegal Approval of Project
6 (Against All Respondents and Real Parties in Interest)

7 15. Paragraphs 1 through 14 are fully incorporated into this paragraph.

8 16. Petitioner is informed and believes and on that basis alleges that the Project does not

9 comply with all applicable laws. By way of example and without limitation (including alternative
10 theories of liability):

11 A. The Project violates CEQA. For example:

12 i. Whenever a project proposed to be carried out or approved by a lead

13 agency has the potential to cause an adverse environmental impact, CEQA prohibits the agency from
14 relying on a negative declaration. Instead, CEQA requires the preparation of an environmental impact

15 report to identify and analyze the significant adverse environmental impacts of a proposed project,
16| giving due consideration to both short-term and long-term impacts, providing decision-makers with
17 enough information to enable them to make an informed decision with full knowledge of the likely
18 consequences of their actions, and providing members of the public with enough information to

19 participate meaningfully in the project's approval and environmental-review process. CEQA also
20 requires every environmental impact report to identify and analyze a reasonable range of alternatives
21 to a proposed project. CEQA further requires every environmental impact report to identify and analyze
22 all reasonable mitigation measures for a proposed project's significant adverse environmental impacts.

23 An environmental impact report must be prepared a for a proposed project if there is a fair argument,

24 supported by substantial evidence in the administrative record, that the project may have an adverse
25 environmental impact; stated another way, a negative declaration may not be used unless the lead

26 agency determines with certainty that there is no potential for the project to have an adverse
27 environmental impact.

28

VERIFIED COMPLAINT AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE ETC. Page 4

ii. The Project's significant direct, indirect, or cumulative adverse impacts

2 on the environment give rise to Respondent's legal obligation to prepare an environmental impact report

3 specifically for the Project.
4 iii. Respondent failed to prepare an environmental impact report specifically

5 for the Project, and that failure is a violation of CEQA.

6 iv. As a result of Respondent's violation of CEQA, Petitioner has been
7 harmed insofar as Petitioner, its members, other members of the public, and the responsible decision-

8 makers were not fully informed about the potential adverse environmental impacts of the this Project,

9 and insofar as Petitioner, its members, and other members of the public did not have an opportunity to
10| participate meaningfully in the analysis of such impacts prior to approval of the Project.

11 B. The Project violates the PZL. For example:

12 i. Respondent did not approve the Project by ordinance, in violation of

13 Government Code Section 65867.5(a).

14 ii. In approving the Project, Respondent failed to make the finding required
15 by Government Code Section 65867.5(b); and there is no substantial evidence in the record to support
16 such a finding even if it had been made.

17 C. The Project violates Government Code Sections 52201 and 52203 and Health
18 and Safety Code Section 33433. For example:

19 i. Prior to the public hearing on the Project, Respondent failed to publish
20 notice of the hearing's time and place in compliance with Government Code Section 52201(a)(1) and
21| Health and Safety Code Section 33433(a)(1).

22 ii. In approving the Project, Respondent failed to make the finding required

23 by Section 52201(b)(1)-(2); and there is no substantial evidence in the record to support such a finding

24 even if it had been made.

25 iii. Before approving the Project, Respondent failed to hold the public
26 hearing or make the finding required by Government Code Section 52203(b); and there is no substantial
27 evidence in the record to support such a finding even if it had been made.

28 D. The Project violates the San Diego City Charter. For example:

VERIFIED COMPLAINT AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE ETC. Page 5

1 -•

2 Respondent is selling Tailgate Park for less than fair-market value and

3 is thereby making a gift of public funds, in violation of City Charter Section 93.
E.

4 The Project violates the San Diego Municipal Code ("SDMC"). In particular:

i. The Project does not require the annual submission of an affidavit as
5 prescribed by SDMC Section 124.0103(a)(6).

6 ii. Respondent's planning commission did not hold a hearing on the Project
7 prior to its approval by the city council, in violation of SDMC Section 124.0104(a)-(b).

8

9 In approving the Project, Respondent failed to make the finding required

10 by SDMC Section 124.0104(c)(1)-(3); and there is no substantial evidence in the record to support such
a finding even if it had been made.

11 17.

12 There is currently a dispute between Petitioner and the other parties to this lawsuit over

13 the Project's legal force and effect. Petitioner contends that the Project's approval has no legal force
or effect because it violates CEQA and/or one or more other applicable laws. The other parties to this
14 lawsuit dispute Petitioner's contention. The parties therefore require a judicial determination of the
15 legal force and effect (if any) of the Project's approval.

16 Prayer

17 FOR ALL THESE REASONS, Petitioner respectfully prays for the following relief against all
18 Defendants/Respondents and all Defendants/Real Parties in Interest (and any all other parties who may

19 oppose Petitioner in this lawsuit):

20 A. A judgment or other appropriate order determining or declaring that
21 Defendants/Respondents failed to fully comply with CEQA, the PZL, and/or one or more other

22

23 applicable laws as they relate to the Project and that there must be full compliance therewith before final
approval and implementation of the Project may occur;

24 B. A judgment or other appropriate order determining or declaring that
25 Defendants/Respondents failed to comply with CEQA, the PZL, and/or one or more other applicable
26

27 laws as they relate to the Project and that its approval was illegal in at least some respect, rendering the

28 approval (including any subsequent actions or omissions based on the approval) null and void;

VERIFIED COMPLAINT AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE ETC. Page 6

1 C. Injunctive relief prohibiting Defendants/Respondents and Defendants/Real Parties in

2 Interest (and any and all persons acting at the request of, in concert with, or for the benefit of one or

3 more of them) from taking any action on any aspect of, in furtherance of, or otherwise based on the
Project unless and until Defendants/Respondents comply with CEQA, the PZL, and all other applicable
laws, as determined by the Court;

6 D. Any and all other relief that may be authorized by CEQA, the PZL, or other applicable
7 laws, or any combination of them, but is not explicitly or specifically requested elsewhere in this Prayer;

8 E. Any and all legal fees and other expenses incurred by Petitioner in connection with this

9 lawsuit, including but not limited to reasonable attorney fees as authorized by the Code of Civil

10 Procedure; and

11 F. Any and all further relief that this Court may deem appropriate.

12 Dated: May 17, 2022. Respectfully submitted,

13 BRIGGS LAW CORPORATION

14 By: Cw 1. Ipiops
15 Cory J.Briggs

16 Attorney for Plaintiff and Petitioner Project for Open Government
17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

VERIFIED COMPLAINT AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE ETC. Page 7

COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND PETITION
FOR WRIT OF MANDATE UNDER THE CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL
QUALITY ACT AND OTHER LAWS

Exhibit "A"

BRIGGS 99 East "C" Street, Suite 111
Upland, CA 91786
LAW CORPORATION T: 909-949-7115
F: 909-949-7121

BLC File(s): 2060.04

17 May 2022

Elizabeth Maland, City Clerk Via E-Mail to emaland@sandiego.gov
City of San Diego
202 "C" Street, 2nd Floor
San Diego, CA 92101

Re: Notice of Commencement of Action

Dear City Clerk:
I represent Project for Open Government and am sending this Notice of Commencement of Action on my client's behalf.
Please be advised that my client intends to commence a civil action in San Diego County Superior Court against your agency. The action will challenge your agency's approval of the project that was the subject of Item 334 on the city council's April 19, 2022 agenda (Tailgate Park/Padres Development Team), on the grounds that the approval violated the California Environmental Quality Act (PUB. RES. CODE § 21000 et seq.). The action may also challenge your agency's approval of the
project based on one or more violations of other laws.

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.

Sincerely,

BRIGGS LAW CORPORATION
Can 4. Iuize
Cory'J. Briggs

Be Good to the Earth: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle

Cory Briggs

From: Cory Briggs
Sent: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 6:14 AM
To: Elizabeth Maland (emaland@sandiego.gov)
Cc: San Diego City Clerk
Subject: Notice of Commencement of Action
Attachments: 2022_05-17_NCA.pdf

Dear City Clerk:

Please see the attached Notice of Commencement of Action.

Cory J. Briggs Briggs Law Corporation 99 East "C" Street, Suite 111, Upland, CA 91786 Telephone: 909-949-7115 (office); 619-736-9086 (direct)
Facsimile: 909-949-7121
E-mail: cory@briggslawcorp.com

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail, and print double-sided whenever possible.

Important Notice: This message contains confidential information intended only for the use of the addressee(s) named above and may contain information that is legally privileged. If you are not an addressee or the person responsible for delivering this message to the addressee(s), you are hereby notified that reading, disseminating, distributing, or copying this message is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message by mistake, please immediately notify me by replying to this message and then delete the original message and your reply immediately thereafter. Thank you very much.
Internal Revenue Service Circular 230 Disclosure: Nothing in this message is intended or written by Briggs Law Corporation (including its attorneys and staff) to be used and cannot be used for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing, or recommending to another party any transaction or matter
addressed in this message.

1

Cory Briggs

From: Oliva, Mailei <MOliva@sandiego.gov>
Sent: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 8:28 AM
To: Cory Briggs
Cc: Maland, Elizabeth
Subject: RE: Notice of Commencement of Action

Good morning, Mr. Briggs.
The Office of the City Clerk is in receipt of your email and attachment regarding the Notice of Commencement of Action. Our office will process accordingly.
Thank you and please let me know if you have any questions.

Sincerely,

Mailei K. Oliva
Program Manager
City of San Diego
Office of the City Clerk

(T) 619-533-4060
moliva@sandiego.gov

Please take a moment to complete a
short customer satisfaction survey for
the Office of the City Clerk

CONFIDENTIAL COMMUNICATION This electronic mail message and any attachments are intended only for the use of the addressee(s) named above and may contain information that is privileged, confidential and exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If you are not an intended recipient, or the employee or agent responsible for delivering this e-mail to the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you received this e-mail message in error, please immediately notify the sender by replying to this message or by telephone. Thank you.

From: CLK City Clerk <CityClerk@sandiego.gov>
Sent: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 7:34 AM To: Berry, Jennifer <JLBerry@sandiego.gov>; Oliva, Mailei <MOliva@sandiego.gov>
Cc: Davis, Tina <TDavis@sandiego.gov> Subject: FW: Notice of Commencement of Action
Please see below and attached. I have added the procedure for Info counter staff to follow.

From: Cory Briggs <cory@briggslawcorp.com>
Sent: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 7:27 AM
To: Maland, Elizabeth <EMaland@sandiego.gov>
Cc: CLK City Clerk <CityClerk@sandiego.gov>
Subject: [EXTERNAL] RE: Notice of Commencement of Action

**This email came from an external source. Be cautious about clicking on any links in this email or opening in
attachments.**

Did you delete the e-mail without reading it?

Cory J. Briggs Briggs Law Corporation 99 East "C" Street, Suite 111, Upland, CA 91786 Telephone: 909-949-7115 (office); 619-736-9086 (direct) Facsimile: 909-949-7121
E-mail: cory@briggslawcorp.com
Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail, and print double-sided whenever possible.
Important Notice: This message contains confidential information intended only for the use of the addressee(s) named above and may contain information that is legally privileged. If you are not an addressee or the person responsible for delivering this message to the addressee(s), you are hereby notified that reading, disseminating, distributing, or copying this message is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message by mistake, please immediately notify me by replying to this message and then delete the original message and your reply immediately thereafter. Thank you very much.
Internal Revenue Service Circular 230 Disclosure: Nothing in this message is intended or written by Briggs Law Corporation (including its attorneys and staff) to be used and cannot be used for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing, or recommending to another party any transaction or matter addressed in this message.

From: Cory Briggs
Sent: Tuesday, May 17, 2022 6:14 AM To: Elizabeth Maland (emaland@sandiego.gov) <emaland@sandiego.gov>
Cc: San Diego City Clerk <cityclerk@sandiego.gov> Subject: Notice of Commencement of Action

Dear City Clerk:
Please see the attached Notice of Commencement of Action.

Cory J. Briggs
Briggs Law Corporation 99 East "C" Street, Suite 111, Upland, CA 91786 Telephone: 909-949-7115 (office); 619-736-9086 (direct)
Facsimile: 909-949-7121
E-mail: cory@briggslawcorp.com
Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail, and print double-sided whenever possible.
Important Notice: This message contains confidential information intended only for the use of the addressee(s) named above and may contain information that is legally privileged. If you are not an addressee or the person responsible for delivering this message to the addressee(s), you are hereby notified that reading, disseminating, distributing, or copying this message is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message by mistake, please immediately notify me by replying to this message and then delete the original message and your reply immediately thereafter. Thank you very much.

2

Internal Revenue Service Circular 230 Disclosure: Nothing in this message is intended or written by Briggs Law Corporation (including its attorneys and staff) to be used and cannot be used for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing, or recommending to another party any transaction or matter addressed in this message.

3

VERIFICATION
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF San Dicgo
have read the foregoing COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND PETITION
FOR WRIT OF MANDATE etc. and know its contents.

0 X CHECK APPLICABLE PARAGRAPH I am a party to this action. The matters stated in the foregoing document are true of my own knowledge except as to
x those matters which are stated on information and belief, and as to those matters I believe them to be true.
I am « an Officer D a partner 0 of
PROJECT FOR OPEN GOVERNMENT a party to this action, and am authorized to make this verification for and on its behalf, and make this verification for that reason. K am informed and believe and on that ground allege that the matters stated in the foregoing document are true. O The matters stated in the foregoing document are true of my own knowledge except as to those matters which
1 are stated on information and belief, and as to those matters I believe them to be true.
am one of the attorneys for a party to this action. Such party is absent from the county of aforesaid where such attorneys have their offices, and I make this verification for and on behalf of that party for that reason. I am informed and believe and on that ground allege that the
matters stated in the foregoing document are true.
Executed on May 17 20 22 at San Diego California.
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct,

Mat Wahlstrom
Type or Print Name PROOF OF SERVICE Signature

STATE OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF
am employed in the county of State of California.
am over the age of 18 and not a party to the within action; my business address iS.

On 20 served the foregoing document described as

on in this action
by placing the true copies thereof enclosed in scaled envelopes addressed as stated on the attached mailing list: by placing D the original D a true copy thereof enclosed in sealed envelopes addressed as follows:

0 BY MAIL _ * I deposited such envelope in the mail at California.
The envelope was mailed with postage thereon fully prepaid. As follows I am "readily familiar" with the firm's practice of collection and processing correspondence for mailing. Under that practice it would be deposited with U.S. postal service on that same day with postage thereon fully prepaid at California in the ordinary course of business. I am aware that on motion of the party served, service is presumed invalid if postal cancellation date or postage meter date is more than one day after date of
deposit for mailing in affidavit.
0 Executed on 20 at California.
**(BY PERSONAL SERVICE) I delivered such envelope by hand to the offices of the addressee.
Executed on 20 at California.
(State) declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the above is true and correct.
(Federal) declare that am employed in the office of a member of the bar of this court at whose direction the service was
made.

Type or Print Name Signature
* (By MAIL SIGNATURE MUST BE OF PERSON DEPOSITING ENVELOPE IN
MAIL SLOT. BOX. OR BAG) **(FOR PERSONAL SERVICE SIGNATURE MUST BE THAT OF MESSENGER)

2001 © American LegalNet, Inc

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO
STREET ADDRESS: 330 W Broadway
MAILING ADDRESS: 330 W Broadway
CITY AND ZIP CODE: San Diego, CA 92101-3827
DIVISION: Central
TELEPHONE NUMBER: (619) 450-7060
PLAINTIFF(S) / PETITIONER(S): Project for Open Government
DEFENDANT(S) / RESPONDENT(S): City of San Diego et.al. of

PROJECT FOR OPEN GOVERNMENT VS CITY OF SAN DIEGO [IMAGED]
NOTICE OF CASE ASSIGNMENT AND CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE CASE NUMBER:

(CIVIL) | 37-2022-00018873-CU-WM-CTL

CASE ASSIGNED FOR ALL PURPOSES TO:
Judge: Matthew C. Braner Department: C-60

COMPLAINT/PETITION FILED: 05/18/2022

TYPE OF HEARING SCHEDULED DATE TIME DEPT JUDGE

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all Case Management Conferences (CMCs) are being conducted virtually unless there is a court order stating otherwise. Prior to the hearing date, visit the "virtual hearings" page for the most current instructions on how to appear for the applicable case-type/department on the court's website at www.sdcourt.ca.gov.
A Case Management Statement (JC Form #CM-110) must be completed by counsel for all parties and by all self-represented litigants and timely filed with the court at least 15 days prior to the initial CMC. (San Diego Superior Court (SDSC) Local Rules, rule 2.1.9; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.725).
All counsel of record and self-represented litigants must appear at the CMC, be familiar with the case, and be fully prepared to participate effectively in the hearing, including discussions of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) options.
It is the duty of each plaintiff (and cross-complainant) to serve a copy of this Notice of Case Assignment and Case Management Conference (SDSC Form #CIV-721) with the complaint (and cross-complaint), the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Information Form (SDSC Form # CIV-730), Stipulation to Use Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) (SDSC Form # CIV-359), and other documents on all parties to the action as set out in SDSC Local Rules, rule 2.1.5.
TIME FOR SERVICE AND RESPONSE: The following rules apply to civil cases except for collections cases under California Rules of Court, rule 3.740(a), unlawful detainer actions, proceedings under the Family Code, and other proceedings for which different service requirements are prescribed by law (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.110; SDSC Local Rules, ruie 2.1.5): Service: The complaint must be served on all named defendants, and proof of service filed with the court within 60 days after filing the complaint. An amended complaint adding a defendant must be served on the added defendant and proof of service filed within 30 days after filing of the amended c omplaint. A cross-complaint against a party who has appeared in the action must be accompanied by proof of service on that party at the time it is filed. If it adds a new party, the cross-complaint must be served on all parties and proof of service on the new party must be filed within 30 days of the filing of the cross-complaint. Defendant's appearance: Unless a special appearance is made, each defendant served must generally appear (as defined in Code of Civ. Proc. § 1014) within 30 days of service of the complaint/cross-complaint. Extensions: The parties may stipulate without leave of court to one 15-day extension beyond the 30-day time period prescribed for the response after service of the initial complaint (SDSC Local Rules, rule 2.1.6). If a party fails to serve and file pleadings as required under this rule, and has not obtained an order extending time to serve its pleadings, the court may issue an order to show cause why sanctions shall not be imposed.
JURY FEES: In order to preserve the right to jury trial, one party for each side demanding a jury trial shall pay an advance jury fee in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150) on or before the date scheduled for the initial case management conference in the
action.
COURT REPORTERS: Official Court Reporters are not normally available in civil matters, but may be requested in certain situations no later than 10 days before the hearing date. See SDSC Local Rules, rule 1.2.3 and Policy Regarding Normal Availability and Unavailability of Official Court Reporters (SDSC Form #ADM-317) for further information.
ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (ADR): The court discourages any unnecessary delay in civil actions; therefore, continuances are discouraged and timely resolution of all actions, including submitting to any form of ADR is encouraged. The court encourages and expects the parties to consider using ADR options prior to the CMC. The use of ADR will be discussed at the CMC. Prior to the CMC, parties stipulating to the ADR process may file the Stipulation to Use Alternative Dispute Resolution (SDSC Form #CIV-359).

SDSC CIV-721 (Rev. 04-21) NOTICE OF CASE ASSIGNMENT AND CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE Page: 1

(CIVIL)

NOTICE OF E-FILING REQUIREMENTS
AND IMAGED DOCUMENTS

Effective April 15, 2021, e-filing is required for attorneys in represented cases in all limited and unlimited civil cases, pursuant to the San Diego Superior Court General Order: In Re Procedures Regarding Electronically Imaged Court Records, Electronic Filing and Access to Electronic Court Records in Civil and Probate Cases. Additionally, you are encouraged to review CIV-409 for a listing of documents that are not eligible for e-filing. E-filing is also encouraged, but not mandated, for self-represented litigants, unless otherwise ordered by the court. All e-filers are required to comply with the e-filing requirements set forth in Electronic Filing Requirements (Civil) (SDSC Form #CIV-409) and Cal. Rules of Court, rules 2.250-2.261.
All Civil cases are assigned to departments that are part of the court's "Imaging Program." This means that original documents filed with the court will be imaged, held for 30 days, and then destroyed, with the exception of those original documents the court is statutorily required to maintain. The electronic copy of the filed document(s) will be the official court record, pursuant to Government Code § 68150. Thus, original documents should not be attached to pleadings filed with the San Diego Superior Court, unless it is document for which the law requires an original be filed. Any original documents necessary for a motion hearing or trial shall be lodged in advance of the hearing pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1302(b).
It is the duty of each plaintiff, cross-complainant, or petitioner to serve a copy of this Notice of Case Assignment and Case Management Conference (Civil) (SDSC Form #CIV-721) with the complaint, cross-complaint, or petition on all parties to the action. to
On all pleadings filed after the initial case originating filing, all parties must, to the extent it is to feasible to do so, place the words "IMAGED FILE" in all caps immediately under the title of the pleading on all subsequent pleadings filed in the action.
The official court file will be electronic and accessible at one of the kiosks located in the Civil Business Office and may be found on the court's website at www.sdcourt.ca.gov.

Page: 2

BRIGGS LAW CORPORATION [FILE: 2060.04] Cory J. Briggs (SBN 176284) ELECTRONICALLY FILED
2 Janna M. Ferraro (SBN 328921) Superior Court of Califomia,
County of San Diego
99 East "C" Street, Suite 111
3 Upland, CA 91786 05/8/2022 at OB:49:19 AM
Telephone: 909-949-7115 Clerk of the Superior Court
4 By Carolina Miranda, Deputy Clerk
Attorney for Plaintiff and Petitioner Project for
5 Open Government

6

7 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
8 COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO - HALL OF JUSTICE
9

10 PROJECT FOR OPEN GOVERNMENT, CASE NO. 37-2022-00018873-CU-WMCTL
11
Plaintiff and Petitioner, )NOTICE OF PETITIONER'S
12 ELECTION TO PREPARE
VS. )ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD
13 CITY OF SAN DIEGO; and DOES 1 through 100, 1
14 Defendants and Respondents,
15 I TAILGATE DEVELOPMENT, LLC; PADRES NEXT 16 FIFTY, LCC; and DOES 101 through 1,000,

17 Defendants and Real Parties in Interest.

18

19

20 TO THE COURT AND TO ALL PARTIES AND THEIR ATTORNEYS:

21 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that Plaintiff and Petitioner PROJECT FOR OPEN
22 GOVERNMENT ("Petitioner") elects, pursuant to Section 21167.6(b)(2) of the Public Resources Code,

23 to prepare the administrative record for the project that is the subject of this proceeding. Petitioner
assemble the items that constitute the administrative record and 24 therefore requests that Respondents
25 notify Petitioner's attorneys of record in writing when the items are available for inspection and
26 | photocopying. To the extent necessary to facilitate Respondents' prompt response to this notice,
27 Petitioner's request should be deemed a request to inspect public records under the California Public
28 Records Act.

1 Petitioner reserves the right to request that Respondents prepare any portion of the record that

2 is not otherwise reasonably available except from one or more of Respondents. However, nothing in

3 this notice shall be construed as Petitioner's express or implied agreement to make any payment to

4 Respondents for their assembly of the items that constitute the administrative record or for any other

5 expense incurred by Respondents in providing Petitioner with access to the items constituting the

6 record. In the absence of Petitioner's express written acknowledgment to the contrary, this notice asks

7 Respondents to do nothing more than provide access to the items constituting the record.

8 Dated: May 17, 2022. Respectfully submitted,
BRIGGS LAW CORPORATION

10
11 By: Cnny 1. Iniops CorylJ. Briggs

12 Attorney for Plaintiff and Petitioner Project for Open Government
13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

NOTICE OF PETITIONER'S ELECTION TO PREPARE ADMINISTRATIVE RECORD Page ii

BRIGGS LAW CORPORATION [FILE: 2060.04] Cory J. Briggs (SBN 176284) ELECTRONICALLY FILED
2 Janna M. Ferraro (SBN 328921) Superior Court of Califomia, County of San Diego
99 East "C" Street, Suite 111
3 Upland, CA 91786 05/18/2022 at 08:49:19 AM

Telephone: 909-949-7115 Clerk of the Superior Court
4 By Carolina Miranda, Deputy Clerk

5 Attorney for Plaintiff and Petitioner Project for Open Government

6

7 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
8 COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO - HALL OF JUSTICE
9

10
PROJECT FOR OPEN GOVERNMENT, CASE NO. 37-2022-00018873-CU-WM-CTL
11
Plaintiff and Petitioner, REQUEST FOR HEARING UNDER
12 PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE
VS. ) SECTION 21167.4
13 CITY OF SAN DIEGO; and DOES 1 through 100,
14

15 Defendants and Respondents,
TAILGATE DEVELOPMENT, LLC; PADRES NEXT
16 FIFTY, LCC; and DOES 101 through 1,000,

17 Defendants and Real Parties in Interest.

18

19 TO THE COURT AND TO ALL PARTIES AND THEIR ATTORNEYS:

20 PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that Plaintiff and Petitioner PROJECT FOR OPEN
21 GOVERNMENT requests a hearing on the merits of its petition for writ of mandate in this lawsuit.
22 California Public Resources Code Section 21167.4(a) mandates that "petitioner shall request a hearing

23 within 90 days from the date of filing the petition or shall be subject to dismissal." So far no hearing

24 date has been scheduled.

25 Dated: May 17, 2022. Respectfully submitted,

26 BRIGGS LAW CORPORATION

27 By: Con I- Hruops
28 CorylJ. Briggs
Attorney for Plaintiff and Petitioner Project for Open Government

! Couri
S SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO

ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (ADR) INFORMATION

CASE NUMBER: 37-2022-00018873-CU-WM-CTL CASE TITLE: Project for Open Government vs City of San Diego [IMAGED

NOTICE: All plaintiffs/cross-complainants in a general civil case are required to serve a copy of the following three forms on each defendant/cross-defendant, together with the complaint/cross-complaint: (1) this Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Information form (SDSC form #CIV-730), (2) the Stipulation to Use Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) form (SDSC form #CIV-359), and (3) the Notice of Case Assignment form (SDSC form #CIV-721).
Most civil disputes are resolved without filing a lawsuit, and most civil lawsuits are resolved without a trial. The courts, community organizations, and private providers offer a variety of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) processes to help people resolve disputes without a trial. The San Diego Superior Court expects that litigants will utilize some form of ADR as a mechanism for case settlement before trial, and it may be beneficial to do this early in the case.
Below is some information about the potential advantages and disadvantages of ADR, the most common types of ADR, and how to find a local ADR program or neutral. A form for agreeing to is use ADR is attached (SDSC form #CIV-359).
Potential Advantages and Disadvantages of ADR ADR may have a variety of advantages or disadvantages over a trial, depending on the type of ADR process used and the
particular case:

Potential Advantages Potential Disadvantages
Saves time May take more time and money if ADR does not
Saves money resolve the dispute
Gives parties more control over the dispute • Procedures to learn about the other side's case (discovery),
resolution process and outcome jury trial, appeal, and other court protections may be limited
Preserves or improves relationships or unavailable

Most Common Types of ADR You can read more information about these ADR processes and watch videos that demonstrate them on the court's ADR
webpage at http://www.sdcourt.ca.gov/adr.
Mediation: A neutral person called a "mediator" helps the parties communicate in an effective and constructive manner
so they can try to settle their dispute. The mediator does not decide the outcome, but helps the parties to do so. Mediation is usually confidential, and may be particularly useful when parties want or need to have an ongoing relationship, such as in disputes between family members, neighbors, co-workers, or business partners, or when parties want to discuss non-legal concerns or creative resolutions that could not be ordered at a trial.

Settlement Conference: A judge or another neutral person called a "settlement officer" helps the parties to understand the strengths and weaknesses of their case and to discuss settlement. The judge or settlement officer does not make a decision in the case but helps the parties to negotiate a settlement. Settlement conferences may be particularly helpful when the parties have very different ideas about the likely outcome of a trial and would like an experienced neutral to help guide them toward a resolution.
Arbitration: A neutral person called an "arbitrator" considers arguments and evidence presented by each side and then decides the outcome of the dispute. Arbitration is less formal than a trial, and the rules of evidence are usually relaxed. If the parties agree to binding arbitration, they waive their right to a trial and agree to accept the arbitrator's decision as final. With nonbinding arbitration, any party may reject the arbitrator's decision and request a trial. Arbitration may be appropriate when the parties want another person to decide the outcome of their dispute but would like to avoid the formality, time, and expense of a trial. a

SDSC CIV-730 (Rev 12-10) ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (ADR) INFORMATION Page: 1

Other ADR Processes: There are several other types of ADR which are not offered through the court but which may be obtained privately, including neutral evaluation, conciliation, fact finding, mini-trials, and summary jury trials. Sometimes parties will try a combination of ADR processes. The important thing is to try to find the type or types of ADR that are most likely to resolve your dispute. Be sure to learn about the rules of any ADR program and the qualifications of any neutral you are considering, and about their fees.
Local ADR Programs for Civil Cases

Mediation: The San Diego Superior Court maintains a Civil Mediation Panel of approved mediators who have met certain minimum qualifications and have agreed to charge $150 per hour for each of the first two (2) hours of mediation and their regular hourly rate thereafter in court-referred mediations.
On-line mediator search and selection: Go to the court's ADR webpage at www.sdcourt.ca.gov/adr and click on the "Mediator Search" to review individual mediator profiles containing detailed information about each mediator including their dispute resolution training, relevant experience, ADR specialty, education and employment history, mediation style, and fees and to submit an on-line Mediator Selection Form (SDSC form #CIV-005). The Civil Mediation Panel List, the Available Mediator List, individual Mediator Profiles, and Mediator Selection Form (CIV-005) can also be printed from the court's ADR webpage and are available at the Mediation Program Office or Civil Business Office at each court location.
Settlement Conference: The judge may order your case to a mandatory settlement conference, or voluntary settlement conferences may be requested from the court if the parties certify that: (1) settlement negotiations between the parties have been pursued, demands and offers have been tendered in good faith, and resolution has failed; (2) a judicially supervised settlement conference presents a substantial opportunity for settlement; and (3) the case has developed to a point where all parties are legally and factually prepared to present the issues for settlement consideration and further discovery for settlement purposes is not required. Refer to SDSC Local Rule 2.2.1 for more information. To schedule a settlement conference, contact the department to which your case is assigned.
Arbitration: The San Diego Superior Court maintains a panel of approved judicial arbitrators who have practiced law for a minimum of five years and who have a certain amount of trial and/or arbitration experience. Refer to SDSC Local Rules Division II, Chapter III and Code Civ. Proc. § 1141.10 et seq or contact the Arbitration Program Office at (619) 450-7300 for more information.

More information about court-connected ADR: Visit the court's ADR webpage at www.sdcourt.ca.gov/adr or contact the
court's Mediation/Arbitration Office at (619) 450-7300.
Dispute Resolution Programs Act (DRPA) funded ADR Programs: The following community dispute resolution programs are funded under DRPA (Bus. and Prof. Code §§ 465 et seq.): In Central, East, and South San Diego County, contact the National Conflict Resolution Center (NCRC) at www.ncrconline.com or (619) 238-2400. In North San Diego County, contact North County Lifeline, Inc. at www.nclifeline.org or (760) 726-4900.
Private ADR: To find a private ADR program or neutral, search the Internet, your local telephone or business directory, or legal newspaper for dispute resolution, mediation, settlement, or arbitration services.

Legal Representation and Advice
To participate effectively in ADR, it is generally important to understand your legal rights and responsibilities and the likely outcomes if you went to trial. ADR neutrals are not allowed to represent or to give legal advice to the participants in the ADR process. If you do not already have an attorney, the California State Bar or your local County Bar Association
can assist you in finding an attorney. Information about obtaining free and low cost legal assistance is also available on iS the California courts website at www.courtinfo.ca.gov/selfhelp/lowcost.

SDSC CIV-730 (Rev 12-10) ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (ADR) INFORMATION Page: 2

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO FOR COURT USE ONLY

STREET ADDRESS: 330 West Broadway
MAILING ADDRESS: 330 West Broadway
CITY, STATE, & ZIP CODE: San Diego, CA 92101-3827
BRANCH NAME: Central

PLAINTIFF(S): Project for Open Government

I DEFENDANT(S): City of San Diego et.al.

SHORT TITLE: PROJECT FOR OPEN GOVERNMENT VS CITY OF SAN DIEGO [IMAGED]

STIPULATION TO USE ALTERNATIVE CASE NUMBER:
DISPUTE RESOLUTION (ADR) 37-2022-00018873-CU-WM-CTL

Judge: Matthew C. Braner Department: C-60
The parties and their attorneys stipulate that the matter is at issue and the claims in this action shall be submitted to the following alternative dispute resolution (ADR) process. Selection of any of these options will not delay any case management timelines.
0 Mediation (court-connected) Non-binding private arbitration
Mediation (private) . Binding private arbitration
Voluntary settlement conference (private) 1 Non-binding judicial arbitration (discovery until 15 days before trial)
Neutral evaluation (private) Non-binding judicial arbitration (discovery until 30 days before trial)

0 Other (specify e.g., private mini-trial, private judge, etc.):

is also stipulated that the following shall serve as arbitrator, mediator or other neutral: (Name)

Alternate neutral (for court Civil Mediation Program and arbitration only):

Date: Date:

Name of Plaintiff Name of Defendant

Signature Signature

Name of Plaintiff's Attorney Name of Defendant's Attorney

Signature Signature
If there are more parties and/or attorneys, please attach additional completed and fully executed sheets.
is the duty of the parties to notify the court of any settlement pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1385. Upon notification of the settlement, the court will place this matter on a 45-day dismissal calendar.
No new parties may be added without leave of court.
IT IS SO ORDERED.

Dated: 05/19/2022 JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT

SDSC CIV-359 (Rev 12-10) STIPULATION TO USE OF ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION Page: 1