-Law Offices of Babak Naficy

October 13, 2022

VIA US MAIL

Rob Bonta
Office of Attorney General
1300 "I" Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

: Re: Protect Our Emergency Routes v. City of Agoura Hills
Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22STCP03357

Dear Attorney General Bonta:
1124 Nipomo St
Suite C Enclosed is a copy of the Petition for Peremptory Writ of Mandate and Complaint for
San Luis Obispo Declaratory and Injunctive Relief filed with Los Angeles County Superior Court, in the
California 93401 above-captioned matter.
ph:805-593-0926
fax: 805-593-0946 This copy is being furnished to you pursuant to Public Resources Code § 21167.7 and
California Code of Civil Procedure § 388.

babaknaficy@naficylaw.net
Please acknowledge receipt of the enclosed petition by return letter.

Sincerely, Saf
Eva Ulz 8
Certified Law Student

$

lectronically FILED by Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles on 09/16/2022 12:54 PM R. Sherri R. Carter, Executive OfficerClerk of Court, by J. Hernandez, Deputy Cler
Babak Naficy (SBN 177709)

2 LAW OFFICE OF BABAK NAFICY
1124 Nipomo Street, Suite C
3 San Luis Obispo, CA 93401
Tel (805) 593-0926
4 Fax (805) 593-0946
IIbabaknaficy@naficylaw.com

6 Attorney for Petitioner:
PROTECT OUR EMERGENCY
7 EVACUATION ROUTES

8 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9 FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

10

Babak Naficy 11 PROTECT OUR EMERGENCY Case No.: 22STCP03357
EVACUATION ROUTES, an unincorporated
12 association,

13 Petitioner and plaintiff, FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR
PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND
14 VS. COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY AND
0 15 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF
02!J0 MDT CITY OF AGOURA HILLS: AGOURA

16 HILLS CITY COUNCIL; DOES 1 to 10,
inclusive, Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1085, 1094.5, & 1021.5;
17 Pub. Res. Code § 21000, et seq.
Respondents and defendants,
18

19 Petitioners and plaintiffs PROTECT OUR EMERGENCY EVACUATION ROUTES

20 hereby alleges as follows:

21 INTRODUCTION

22 1. Through this action, Protec Our Emergency Evacuation Routes ("Petitioner" or

23 "PEER") challenges the City of Agoura Hills' ("City") certification of a Subsequent

24 Environmental Impact Report (*SEIR"), approval of a General Plan Update ("GPU"), and

25 adoption of several Zoning Ordinances amending the City's residential density and establishing

26 an affordable housing overlay (collectively, the "Project"). The GPU substantially increased the
City's stock of housing opportunities, including areas designated for development of multifamily
27 housing. Petitioner contends that the City violated the California Environmental Quality Act
28

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 1-

1 ("CEQA") by certifying an SEIR that failed to adequately disclose or discuss the potentially

2 significant impacts of the GPU on fire safety and evacuation routes.

3 2. The City's failure to disclose or discuss these impacts also effectively precluded

4 any meaningful discussion of mitigations or alternatives that might have lessened the GPU's

5 impact on the safety of the City's present and future residents as well as the residents of adjacent

6 communities who depend on emergency evacuation routes that run through the City. Likewise,

7 the City failed to consider mitigations or alternatives to reduce the wildfire risk for the new
housing opportunity sites.
8

THE PARTIES

10 3. Petitioner and plaintiff PROTECT OUR EMERGENCY EVACUATION

Babak Naficy 11 ROUTES ("PEER") is an unincorporated association that was formed after the City approved the

12 GPU. Its members are residents of Agoura Hills and neighboring communities who would likely

13 be required to depend on the Kanan Road and Driver Avenue evacuation routes.

4.
14 Respondent and defendant CITY OF AGORA HILLS ("City") is a local

6 15 government agency with the authority to regulate and administer land use and planning within
Office Law the City of Agoura Hills in Los Angeles County, California, but only in compliance with the duly
16 adopted provisions of its zoning ordinances, General Plan, Community Plans, County Code, and
17 all applicable provisions of state law, including the California Environmental Quality Act
18 ("CEQA") and the Sustainable Groundwater Management Act ("SGMA").

19 5. Respondent and defendant AGOURA HILLS CITY COUNCIL ("Council" or,

20 collectively with County, "Respondents") is the legislative body and highest administrative body

21 in the City. The Council has the authority to approve or disapprove proposed General Plan

22 Updates and changes to the City's Zoning Ordinance.
6.
23 Petitioners do not know the identity of DOES 1 to 10 but will amend the Petition
as required to specifically identify each such
24 person or entity a as a respondent and defendant if the
identity, interest, and capacity of such party, if any, becomes known.
25

26 JURISDICTION AND VENUE

27 7. This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to California Code of Civil

28 Procedure sections 1085 and 1094.5, and Public Resources Code section 21167. This Court has
the authority to issue a writ of mandate directing Respondents to vacate and set aside their

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 2-

1 approval of the Project under the Code of Civil Procedure sections 1085 and 1094.5. This Court

2 also has authority to award attorney's fees and costs under Code of Civil Procedure section

3 1021.5 where, as here, Petitioners seek to enforce important rights affecting the public interest.

4 8. Venue for this action properly lies in the Superior Court of Los Angeles County

5 because Respondents are the City of Agoura Hills, a municipality located within the County of

6 Los Angeles, and its highest legislative body and because the action concerns the approval of a
General Plan Update that will guide land use in the City of Agoura Hills.
7

8 PROCEDURAL ALLEGATIONS

9. Petitioner and its members have performed any and all conditions precedent to
10 filing the instant action and have exhausted any and all administrative remedies to the extent
Naficy 6 MOqDE JO 32!0 MDT 11 required by law, by inter alia, opposing the Project in written and oral comments prior to the

12 City's approval.
10. 13 On September 9, 2022, Petitioner sent written notice of intent to commence

14 litigation against the City. A true and correct copy of that notice is attached hereto as Exhibit A.
11. Petitioner has complied with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
15 388 by mailing a copy of the Petition and Complaint to the Attorney General of the State of
16 California.

17 12. Petitioner and its members have no plain, speedy, or adequate remedy in the
18 ordinary course of law unless this Court grants the requested writ of mandate to require

19 Respondents to comply with their duties and set aside the City's unlawful approval of the

20 Project. In the absence of such remedies, Respondents' approval will remain in effect in violation

21 of CEQA and other state and local laws.

13.
22 If Respondents are not enjoined from approving the Project and undertaking
and/or permitting acts in furtherance thereof, Petitioner, its members, and the residents of Agoura 23 Hills and adjoining communities, particularly those who depend on the Kanan and Driver
24 evacuation routes, will suffer irreparable harm from which there is no adequate remedy at law.
25 14. In pursuing this action, which involves enforcement of important rights affecting
26 the public interest, Petitioner will confer a substantial benefit on the general public, including
27 citizens of Los Angeles County and the State of California, and therefore will be entitled to

28 attorney's fees and costs pursuant to, inter alia, Code of Civil Procedure section 1021.5.

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 3-

1 15. Petitioner brings this action in part pursuant to

2 Public Resources Code sections

3 21167, 21168, and/or 21168.5, Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, and/or Code of Civil

4 Procedure section 1094.5, which require that an agency's approval of a project be set aside if the
agency has prejudicially abused its discretion. Prejudicial abuse of discretion occurs either where

5 an agency has failed to proceed in a manner required by law or where its determination or

6 decision is not supported by substantial evidence. Respondents have prejudicially abused their

7 discretion because the City failed to proceed in the manner required by law and/or the City's

8 findings and factual conclusions are not supported by substantial evidence.

9 FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS

16.
10 The City of Agoura Hills ("City") is located in Los Angeles County's Conejo

Babak Naficy 11 Valley between the Simi Hills and the Santa Monica Mountains. It was incorporated as a general

12 law city in 1982, and, according to the 2020 census, has a population of about 20, 269 residents.

13 Much of the City is located within an area that has been designated as a Very High Fire Hazard

14 Severity Zone (VHFSZ). Agoura Hills is located within the area affected by the Woolsey Fire,
which started on November 8, 2018. *5 .

6
00!J0 M0T 15 A.
16 General Plan and Housing Element Updates

17 17. The City adopted a new general plan entitled "General Plan 2035" on March 24,

18 2010. In 2013, the City adopted an updated 5th Cycle Housing Element. In 2021, the City began

19 preparing its 6th Cycle Housing Element for 2021 to 2029.
18.
20 On September 30, 2021, the City filed a notice of preparation ("NOP") of a

21 subsequent environmental impact report ("SEIR") for a General Plan Update ("GPU") including

22 the Housing, Land Use, Safety, and Circulation Elements. The NOP was discussed during the

23 October 21, 2021 Planning Commission meeting. The City published the Notice of Availability

24 of the Draft SEIR on April 28, 2022 with 45-day review period ending on June 20, 2022.
19. The Draft SEIR and GPU were discussed at a joint City Council and Planning
25 Commission meeting on May 19, 2022. In particular, the presentation at the joint meeting

26

27

28 California's Regional Housing Needs Allocation (*RHNA") is conducted in eight-year cycles; the 5th Cycle covered 2015 to 2023. The 6th Cycle covers 2021 to 2029.

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 4-

1

2 focused on explaining the state-mandated Housing Element (Gov't Code § 65580, et seg), the

3 Regional Housing Needs Allocation ("RHNA") and the City's plan to update its GPU for the 6th
RHNA Cycle and obtain certification of their Housing Element's compliance from the Californial
4 Department of Housing and Community Development ("HCD").

5 20. The City released a draft of its new Objective Design Standards for Multiple

6 Family Dwellings in May 2022. In July 2022, the City published its response to public comments

7 on the SEIR in two parts.
21.
8 The City's Planning Commission reviewed the Final SEIR and GPU at their July
21, 2022, meeting. On August 10, 2022, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 22-2017
9 certifying the SEIR and Resolution No. 22-2018 approving the GPU. The Council also adopted
10 several related zoning ordinances.
MDqDE JO 02!0 MDT Naficy 11 22. Ordinance No. 22-461 modified the RH, RM, and CS-MU zoning districts to
12 allow increased residential density. It also established an affordable housing overlay district and

13 a ministerial approval process for qualifying projects, along with objective design standards for

14 multiple family dwellings. Ordinance No. 22-462 amended the Ladyface Mountain Specific Plan

15 to harmonize with the new affordable housing overlay. And Ordinance No. 22-463 made similar

16 amendments to the Agoura Village Specific Plan.

17 B. Emergency Evacuation Planning and Wildfire Risk®

18 23.
19 Throughout the process of developing and reviewing the GPU and its

20 accompanying SEIR, citizens of Agoura Hills and adjacent communities raised concerns about

21 the GPU's effect on emergency planning. In particular, public comment pointed out that the

22 SEIR failed to adequately analyze or disclose the GPU's significant impacts on emergency
evacuation and wildfire risk.

23 24.

24 As part of the GPU, the City adopted Policies S.1-11 and S.3-10 which require the
City to prepare Citywide evacuation plans for flooding and wildfire events. While the City

25 claims these evacuation planning efforts are "underway," the record shows that at the time the

26 City approved the GPU, the City had not completed its wildfire or flooding evacuation plans.
25.
27 According to City documents, since the Woolsey Fire, the City has allegedly

28 improved communication protocols including an agreement with Code Red to update the City's
Mass Notification System. The City also claims it has been working with Los Angeles County to

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 5-

1 implement an emergency evacuation program called Zone Haven to notify local residents and

2 businesses about emergency evacuation orders.

3 26. The SEIR discloses that the General Plan 2010 EIR concluded that adherence to

4 then-existing emergency guidance and protocols, as well as the implementation of General Plan

5 goals and policies would ensure that there would be no impact to emergency response or

6 evacuation plans "because no emergency response or evacuation plans have been adopted for the

7 City." SEIR p IV.F-31. This conclusion, however, is essentially meaningless because the mere
fact that the City had failed (and continues to fail) to develop any meaningful evacuation plans
8 does not mean the development envisioned by the 2010 General Plan (or the current GPU) would
9 not impact the public's ability to evacuate the City in case of an emergency such as a wildfire.
10 27. Regarding the GPU, the SEIR admits that its implementation "would result in

Babak Naficy 11 additional residential population and corresponding traffic within the City associated with
12 housing opportunity sites, which could increase emergency response times and impede

13 emergency evacuation." Ibid. The SEIR then goes on to admit that despite the added risk

14 associated with the additional density, which will result in significantly more growth as

6 15 compared to the 2010 General Plan, the City has not adopted any emergency evacuation plans.
90YJ0 Law 28.
16 The SEIR does not contain any meaningful analysis of existing conditions as they
relate to emergency response and evacuation in the event of catastrophic wildfires or floods. The
17 SEIR lists a number of policies which it claims would "continue to improve" emergency
18 response and evacuation within the City. The SEIR also notes that Policy S-3.10 requires it to
19 prepare an emergency evacuation plan, however, the SEIR does not make any attempt to

20 evaluate the adequacy of existing protocols, goals and policies or the feasibility and/or efficacy

21 of the General Plan policies that are intended to improve the emergency response and

22 evacuation.

23 29. The SEIR perversely concludes the fact that the City has failed to adopt any

24 emergency evacuation plan means the GPU would not conflict with any emergency evacuation

25 plan. Despite the City's failure to adopt an emergency evacuation plan, the SEIR was required to
analyze the potential impact of the additional residential growth that is likely to occur pursuant to
26 the GPU on the City's emergency safety and evacuation.
27 30. a The record shows that a large number of City residents and even the County of
28 Ventura are deeply concerned about the GPU's impact on emergency evacuation, pointing out

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 6-

1 that the existing traffic load, particularly along Kanan Road, would only worsen as a result of the

2 population growth intended by the GPU. Public comments zeroed in on the three housing

3 opportunity sites located near the intersection of Kanan Road and Thousand Oaks Boulevard,

4 otherwise known as the "shopping center sites." The SEIR drafters gave short shrift to these

5 comments.

31.
6 Likewise, public comments also voiced concern about the housing opportunity

7 site near the intersection of Driver Avenue and Colodny Drive in Old Agoura. Driver Avenue is
the sole evacuation route for many residents of Old Agoura, a neighborhood with a number of
8 equestrian-sized lots on the east side of the City. During the Woolsey Fire, congestion brought
9 traffic to a standstill along Driver Avenue, endangering the people, horses, and other animals

10 attempting to escape.

f Babak Naficy 11 32. Owing to its failure to meaningfully evaluate the adequacy of existing and

12 proposed programs, goals, and policies that are intended to improve emergency response and

13 evacuation, the SEIR fails to consider any additional or different mitigation measures (e.g.,

14 policies or programs) to improve the City's emergency response and evacuation.

O 33.
15 Likewise, the SEIR and the City Council failed to adequately consider alternatives
00!J0 MD] to the approved GPU that would have reduced the adverse impact on emergency response and
16 evacuation, including the public's request that the City consider eliminating the three shopping
17 center sites, which as the public comments pointed out, pose a particularly serious risk to the
18 City's ability to respond and evacuate in the event of an emergency such as a wildfire.
19 34. The evidence in the record shows that the City and the SEIR failed to adequately

20 consider an alternative that would have eliminated the three Kanan shopping center housing

21 opportunity sites and other sites that pose a particularly serious threat to an adequate response

22 and evacuation in case of a catastrophic wildfire (or other natural disaster). The evidence and

23 analysis provided by public comments demonstrated that these sites could have been eliminated

24 without undermining the City's ability to meet the RHNA numbers. The City Council and the

25 SEIR, moreover, could have considered one or more of other potentially feasible alternatives
described by Save Open Space in its comments.
26 35. The Response to Comments lists a number of policies and improvements but does
27 not contain any analysis of the extent to which these improvements and policies would be
28 effective in reducing the impact on emergency evacuation that is posed by the population growth

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 7-

1 intended by the GPU. Even assuming that some of the measures implemented by the City could

2 improve the safety of residents in the event of a catastrophic wildfire, there is no substantial
evidence supporting the SEIR and City's conclusion that the GPU will not expose residents to a 3

4 significant risk of loss, injury or death. SEIR p. II-48.

5 FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION

6 (Violation of CEQA)
7
36. Petitioner incorporates by reference each and every allegation contained in the
8 preceding paragraphs of this Petition as though fully set forth herein.
9 37. As explained below, the SEIR is inadequate and violates CEQA:
10 The SEIR fails to evaluate the adequacy of the City's current ability to respond to
Babak Naficy 11 emergencies and evacuate residents based on existing protocols, communication
12 systems, etc. a This is a failure to adequately describe the current Project setting
92 and environmental base line conditions;
14 The SEIR fails to adequately analyze the incremental additional impact on the

o 15 City's emergency response and evacuation abilities that will result from the
92!!0 MD] additional population growth that the GPU is intended to foster; 16
The SEIR fails to adequately analyze the adequacy of the existing goals, plans and 17
policies, in addition to any proposed new goals, plans or policies contained in the
18 GPU, to ensure a robust emergency response and evacuation based on a
19 reasonable a reasonable population growth estimate;
20 The SEIR fails to analyze the capacity, safety and viability of City's identified
588T6% evacuation routes, including Kanan Road and Driver Avenue, including these
roadways ability to handle mass evacuations under a range of emergency
scenarios;
The City Council and the SEIR fail to consider a reasonable range of alternatives,
including both eliminating the three shopping center sites as well as other
potential locations or use of density bonuses to achieve higher densities;
The City and the SEIR's rejection of certain potentially feasible, environmentally 27
superior alternatives, including alternative locations, was unreasonable and not
28 based on any substantial evidence;

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 8-

1 The City and the SEIR failed to adequately respond to comments.

2

m v WHEREFORE Petitioner prays for judgment against Respondents, as set forth below.

SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
5 (Abuse of Discretion: Findings Not Supported by Substantial Evidence)
6
38. Petitioner incorporates by reference each and every allegation contained in the 7
preceding paragraphs of this Petition as though fully set forth herein.
8
39. The City and SEIR's conclusion that the Project will not "expose a people or
9 structures to a significant a risk of loss, injury or death" is not supported by any meaningful
10 analysis or substantial evidence in the record.
MoqD9: Naficy 11 40. Furthermore, the City and SEIR's rejection of potentially environmentally

12 superior alternatives as infeasible is not supported by substantial evidence.

13 WHEREFORE Petitioner prays for judgment against Respondents, as set forth below.

14 THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION
15
90!J0 MDT (Violation of Government Code section 65302.15)
16
41. Petitioner incorporates by reference each and every allegation contained in the 17 preceding paragraphs of this Petition as though fully set forth herein.
18 42. Pursuant to Government Code section 65302.15, the City was required to review
19 the Safety Element--adopted pursuant to Government Code section 65302(g))and to update
20 that element "as necessary to identify evacuation routes and their capacity, safety, and
21 viability and evacuation locations under a range of emergency scenarios."

22 43. Contrary to this mandate, the City's update of the Safety Element did not include

23 any adequate or meaningful evaluation of evacuation routes including their capacity, safety, and

24 viability across a range of emergency scenarios.

25 PRAYER FOR RELIEF

26 WHEREFORE, PROTECT OUR EMERGENCY EVACUATION ROUTES prays for
27 judgement against CITY OF AGOURA HILLS and AGOURA HILLS CITY COUNCIL, as set
28 forth below:

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 9-

1 (1) That the Court issue an alternative and peremptory writ of mandate commanding

2 Respondents CITY OF AGOURA HILLS and AGOURA HILLS CITY
0 + r COUNCIL to set aside, invalidate, and void Resolution Nos. 22-2017 and 22-
2018 and Ordinances Nos. 22-461, 22-462, and 22-463;
(2) For declaratory judgment, stating that the actions of CITY OF AGOURA HILLS

c and AGOURA HILLS CITY COUCIL in approving Resolution Nos. 22-2017 and

7 22-2018 and Ordinances Nos. 22-461, 22-462, and 22-463 violated the California
Environmental Quality Act;
8 (3) For an alternative and peremptory writ of mandate commanding Respondents
9 CITY OF AGOURA HILLS and AGOURA HILLS CITY COUNCIL to set aside
the certification of the Supplemental Environmental Impact Report for the
6 Law Office of Babak Naficy N2 2 -d General Plan Update;
(4) For a temporary restraining order, preliminary injunction, and permanent
injunction prohibiting any actions based on the approval of the General Plan
Update;

15 (5) For an award of costs and attorney's fees; and

16 (6) For such other and further relief as the Court deems just and proper.

17 Dated this 16th of September 2022. LAW OFFICE OF BABAK NAFICY

18 Babak Naficy
19 Babak Naficy

20 Attorney for Petitioners
588I4% -.

27

28

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY
AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 10-

1 VERIFICATION

2
I, Babak Naficy, am counsel to petitioner/plaintiff and have personal knowledge of the 3
following facts. The offices and governing boards of petitioner/plaintiff, Protect Our Emergency 4 Evacuation Routes, are located outside San Luis Obispo County, the county in which I maintain
5 my office. I have read the foregoing Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and Complaint for
6 Declaratory and Injunctive Relief. The facts alleged in the above petition are true to the best of
7 my knowledge and belief, and, on that ground, petitioner/plaintiff alleges that the matters stated

8 herein are true.

9 I declare under the penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of California that the

10 foregoing is true and correct.

11 Executed this 16th of September, 2022 in San Luis Obispo, California.
Babak Naficy Babak 12 Naficy
13 Babak Naficy
14 Attorney for Petitioners
6 15
90!0 M0T 16

17

18

19

20

588538 26

27

28

FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR PEREMPTORY WRIT OF MANDATE AND COMPLAINT FOR DECLARATORY AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF - 11-

EXHIBIT A

August 10, 2022 Law Offices of Babak Naficy
p

Via email only

City Council
City of Agoura Hills
30001 Ladyface Court
Agoura Hills, California 91301
comments@agourahillscity.org

Re: Certification of the Agoura Hills General Plan Update Supplemental Environmental Impact Report

1124 Nipomo Street Mayor Klein Lopez and Councilmembers:

Suite C
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401
ph: 805-593-0926 represent Save Open Space ("SOS") on whose behalf I ask you not to adopt

fax: 805-593-0946 Resolution No. 22-2017 certifying the Supplemental Environmental Impact

babaknaficy@@sbcglobal.net Report ("SEIR") for the Agoura Hills General Plan Update ("GPU") until the City has revised and recirculated its analyses of impacts to emergency response and evacuation and urban wildfire risk. As written, the SEIR violates the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA") by failing to adequately discuss the aforementioned impacts and by impermissibly delaying analysis and mitigation to future project approvals.
SOS further requests that adoption of Resolution No. 22-2018 approving the GPU and Ordinance Nos. 22-461, 22-462, and 22-463 amending zoning districts and establishing the affordable housing overlay be postponed until the SEIR is brought into compliance with the informational mandates of CEQA. In particular, SOS objects to the rezoning of Sites 0, P, and Q (the Kanan Road "Shopping Center Housing Opportunity Sites") and their
designation as housing opportunities in the GPU. There is substantial
evidence that higher residential density at these sites may cause significant environmental impacts by increasing the likelihood that City's existing residents will be injured or die while waiting for emergency services or attempting to flee from wildfires or other disasters. The SEIR does not adequately analyze this potential adverse impact despite the public outcry.
SOS has already submitted a number of comments during the review period for the draft SEIR that raised a myriad of meritorious issues including the concerns about the impacts of the proposed General Plan Amendments on fire safety and evacuation. My limited focus here on emergency planning and wildfire risk should by no means be interpreted as SOS's abandonment of any of its other objections or concerns.

1

CEQA's Informational Mandates

The purpose of preparing an environmental impact report ("EIR") "is to inform the public and its responsible officials of the environmental consequences of their decisions
before they are made." Citizens of Goleta Valley v. Board of Supervisors (1990) 52 Cal.3d 553, 564 (emphasis in original). In reviewing an agency's action under CEQA, the court's inquiry focuses not on the environmental conclusions but on the sufficiency
of the EIR as an informational document. Ibid.

"An adequate description of adverse environmental effects is necessary to inform the
critical discussion of mitigation measures and project alternatives at the core of the EIR." Sierra Club v. County of Fresno (2018) 6 Cal.5th 502, 514. In other words, noncompliance with CEQA's informational disclosure requirements "which precludes
relevant information from being presented to the public agency . may constitute prejudicial abuse of discretion . regardless of whether a different outcome would
have resulted if the public agency had complied with those provisions." Id., at 515, quoting County of Amador v. El Dorado County Water Agency (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
931, 945 -946. "The ultimate inquiry is whether the EIR includes enough detail 'to enable those who did not participate in its preparation to understand and to consider meaningfully the issues raised by the proposed project." Id., at 516, quoting Laurel Heights Improvement Assn. v. Regents of University of California (1988) 47 Cal.3d
376, 405.

Likewise, an EIR that defers discussion of reasonably foreseeable environmental impacts to some future approval fails to satisfy its informational purpose: "[w]hile proper tiering of environmental review allows an agency to defer analysis of certain details of later phases of long-term linked or complex projects until those phases are up for approval, CEQA's demand for meaningful information 'is not satisfied by simply stating information will be provided in the future." Vineÿard Area Citizens for
Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova (2007) 40 Cal.4th 412, 431.

Tiering, which involves preparing a broad EIR to analyze general matters in such a way that the analysis can later be incorporated by reference in subsequent environmental documents for specific projects, "does not excuse the lead agency from adequately analyzing reasonably foreseeable significant environmental effects of the project and does not justify deferring such analysis." Tit. 14 Cal. Code Regs. § 15152. Detailed, site-specific information that may not be feasible to provide in the context of a general plan EIR may be deferred until the agency prepares an EIR in connection with a localized project, but only where such "deferral does not prevent adequate identification of significant effects of the planning approval at hand." Id., subd. (c).
Likewise, an agency also abuses its discretion when a "determination or decision is not
supported by substantial evidence." Pub. Res. Code § 21168.5; Citizens of Goleta
Valley v. Board of Supervisors, supra, 52 Cal.3d at 564.

2

Impacts F-6 and F-7: Emergency Response and Evacuation

The SEIR relies on an illogically strict reading of the suggested, i.e., completely optional, wording in CEQA Guidelines Appendix G (sample environmental checklist form), in an attempt to sidestep recognition of the GPU's significant impacts to the City's established evacuation routes and at least two existing- -but not yet officially adopted-emergency response and evacuation plans. As explained in the introduction to Appendix G, "[s]ubstantial evidence of potential impacts that are not listed on this form must also be considered."

Section VII, question (g) of CEQA Guidelines Appendix G asks whether the project would "[i]mpair implementation of or physically interfere with an adopted emergency response plan or emergency evacuation plan?" According to the SEIR, the 2010 General Plan ("2010 GP") "determined that adherence to existing hazard and
emergency response guidance and protocols as well as implementation of General Plan
goals and policies would ensure that no impacts to emergency response or emergency evacuation plans would occur as a result of implementation of the General Plan 2010 because no emergency response or evacuation plans have been adopted for the City." SEIR IV.F-31.

In other words, the 2010 GP EIR claimed that the 2010 GP was incapable of impacting the ability of Agoura Hills residents to safely respond or evacuate following a natural disaster solely because there was no existing plan approved by the City for such response or evacuation. Instead, the 2010 GP required the City to develop and adopt such plans as part of the implementation process.
More than a decade later, and in the wake of the devastating 2018 Woolsey Fire, the City inexplicably attempts to rely on its own failure to adopt the emergency response and evacuation plans required by the 2010 GP to determine that the GPU will have no significant impact on these essential safety concerns, again because no emergency response or evacuation plans have yet been adopted.
However, in addition to the City's own presumably in-progress emergency planning efforts-which the SEIR claims will be completed in 2023-there are at least two substantially complete regional emergency response and evacuation plans that may be impaired or at least require significant changes if the GPU is adopted. Therefore, common sense requires that the SEIR must disclose and discuss potential impacts to each of these in-progress planning efforts, regardless of whether the particular plans have been officially "adopted" by the City. The fact that these studies will be completed in the near future does not excuse the City's failure to undertake its own analysis of the impact of the GPU now. Because the understanding of emergency evacuation plans is important to an adequate analysis of the potential environmental impacts of the proposed GPU, the City's options were either to postpone approval of the GPU until the emergency evacuation planning process is complete, or to undertake a meaningful

3

evaluation of the City's emergency evacuation capacity in the SEIR. Vineyard Area Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova (2007) 40 Cal.4th 412, 441, as modified (Apr. 18. 2007) ("CEQA's informational purpose "is not satisfied by simply stating information will be provided in the future").
There is substantial evidence that the GPU will significantly impact the regional emergency response and evacuation plans.
The SEIR admits that "[i]mplementation of the GPU would result in additional
residential population and corresponding traffic within the City associated with the
housing opportunity sites, which could increase emergency response times and impede emergency evacuation." SEIR IV.F-31. These impacts will be particularly significant in the already severely impacted traffic areas surrounding the proposed Shopping Center Housing Opportunity Sites on Kanan Road.

Likewise, the GPU admits that Kanan Road has already been identified as a designated Highway Disaster Route (for inflow of emergency responders) in the Los Angeles County General Plan. The County's draft General Plan Update also identifies Kanan Road as an evacuation route. GPU 5-16.

Agoura Hills is a member of the Las Virgenes-Malibu Council of Governments, which is currently seeking approval of its draft Multi-Jurisdictional Hazardous Mitigation Plan ("MJHMP"). That plan identifies Kanan Road as one of two primary north-south local access roads. MJHMP 2-22. Kanan Road is also identified as an evacuation route
by several adjacent communities including Oak Park and Malibu.

Furthermore, the MJHMP anticipates little to no growth in Agoura Hills: "residential neighborhoods are fully developed and there are limited opportunities for infill development remaining." MJHMP 2-22. The GPU therefore alters the assumptions that the Council of Governments relied on when drafting its plan.
The fact that Agoura Hills has still not adopted its own emergency response and evacuation plans does not excuse the City from disclosing and considering the GPU's impacts to Los Angeles County's existing and draft emergency planning or the completed but not yet approved MJHMP. Taken together, these documents provide substantial evidence that Kanan Road is a primary route for ingress and egress during a local or regional emergency. As the GPU admits, adding more than 500 residences to the already busy commercial Shopping Center Housing Opportunity Sites will adversely impact the City's ability to respond to emergencies as well as the ability of existing and future residents to evacuate.

The SEIR's refusal (1) to recognize that existing plans-even if they aren't yet officially "adopted" by Agoura Hills-will be impacted by the GPU and (2) to acknowledge that Kanan Road has been identified in multiple draft plans as an important evacuation route violates CEQA and defies logic. Furthermore, extensive

4

data regarding the baseline conditions, that is, the actual evacuation behavior of residents of Agoura Hills and adjacent communities, is presently available from multiple reports prepared in the aftermath of the Woolsey fire. There is simply no reason not to include this information in the SEIR; its absence renders the SEIR
inadequate as an informational document thereby violating CEQA and impedes the public's ability to understand the GPU's impacts on essential life safety.

Impacts F-8, F-9, F-10, and F-11: Wildfire Risk

The SEIR impermissibly defers disclosure, analysis, and discussion of mitigation for the GPU's wildfire impacts, that is, its potential to expose people or structures, directly or indirectly, to increased risk of loss, injury, or death from wildfire. This analysis is particularly important because a significant portion of Agoura Hills is
classified as "Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones" ("VHFHSZ") which requires
further consideration of whether the GPU will exacerbate the risk of wildfire or make
recovery from wildfire more dangerous, e.g., due to downstream or down slope runoff or landslides.

The 2010 GP EIR admitted that the 2010 GP "could expose people and structures to risks involving wildland fires." SEIR IV.F-34. The GPU also admits that nearly all of the housing opportunity sites are within the VHFHSZ, "potentially exposing them to risks associated with wildfire." Ibid. However, the SEIR defers review of wildfire impacts associated with future projects supported by the GPU "as part of the normal environmental review under CEQA" for each future development. Ibid.
Some analysis is provided for "by right" or ministerially approved projects that will not be subject to future environmental review, but this consists primarily of assertions that because each such project would be required to follow existing and future laws and policies related to wildfire preparation and risk reduction-including the Community Safety Element update-implementation of the GPU does not expose people or structures to risk from wildfires.

As explained above, deferral of the discussion of impacts and mitigations in a tiered a EIR is only appropriate when the analysis would require site-specific information that is simply not available when the programmatic EIR is prepared. Here, the GPU substantially increases the number of City residents living in VHFHSZ and increases the burden on already impacted evacuation routes. It is foreseeable that
implementation of the GPU will expose existing and future residents and their homes and businesses to increased wildfire risk, whether directly or indirectly. These cumulative impacts must be disclosed and discussed within the SEIR at the
programmatic level and cannot simply be deferred or dismissed by pointing to existing laws and regulations or a plan to approve new policies at some point in the future.
Environmental review of the cumulative impacts of major amendments to the General Plan that are intended specifically to increase density and population must be

5

conducted at the programmatic level; it cannot be reasonably expected that this analysis could be adequately performed on a case-by-case basis for each individual residential project. San Franciscans for Livable Neighborhoods v. City and County of San Francisco (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 596, 608 ("Program EIR's have other advantages. They may be used to address impacts and mitigation measures that apply to the program as a whole to simplify later environmental review for program activities. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15168, subd. (d) ....) They may also be used to consider
broad programmatic issues for related actions at an early planning stage when the
agency has greater flexibility to deal with basic problems
or cumulative impacts. (CEQA Guidelines, § 15168, subd. (d).)").

Best Regards,

Babak Naficy
Babak Naficy
Attorney for Save Open Space

Cc: Save Open Space/Santa Monica Mountains

BN/eau

6